Company Name: AIG
Company Ticker: AIG US
Date: 2010-08-06
Event Description: Q2 2010 Earnings Call
Market Cap: 28,568.91
Current PX: 40.93
YTD Change($): +10.95
YTD Change(%): +36.524
Bloomberg Estimates - EPS
Current Quarter: 0.865
Current Year: 4.040
Bloomberg Estimates - Sales
Current Quarter: 15516.000
Current Year: 92075.000
Page 1 of 3
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Robert H. Benmosche, President and Chief Executive Officer
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Robert H. Benmosche, President and Chief Executive Officer
Hello and thank you for taking time to listen to us today. What I'd like to do today is talk a little bit about our results for
the quarter, and also to take a step back and review with you where I see AIG today given all that we have
accomplished in the last 12 months.
In both the quarter and in last 12 months, you'll see a clear set of themes emerging. Our insurance businesses are
profitable. Client retention rates have stabilized. Surrender rates have improved to normal levels. And employee
turnover is well within the norm.
We have a very strong team and we continue to believe that when we complete our restructuring, AIG will consist of
two main businesses: Chartis, one of the world's largest and most powerful property and casualty franchises, and
SunAmerica Financial Group, one of the U.S.'s most powerful life and retirement services franchises.
These will be complemented by a number of other businesses that diversify our risk profile and will contribute to our
success. These businesses are, for example: our International Leasing Corporation, which leases airplanes, as well as
United Guaranty Corporation, our mortgage guaranty business.
Hopefully, you've had a chance to look at our earnings release, which hits all the details of our quarter by business. As
you see, this quarter, AIG reported a net loss of $2.7 billion, although our continuing insurance operations saw
operating income totaling $2.2 billion. The majority of the loss stemmed from a $3.3 billion impairment we had to take
to write off the goodwill that had been allocated to ALICO, one of our major foreign life operations which is being sold
to MetLife. We continue to expect the ALICO sale to MetLife will close later this year.
Also offsetting our operating income was the interest and amortization of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York credit
facility, as well as third-party debt, invested asset impairment charges and other net restructuring and legal settlement
charges, and a decrease in the net deferred tax asset.
We continue to amortize the prepaid commitment asset of $23 billion, which represents the 80% ownership that the
government took of AIG at the time we received our loans from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
We have earned $1.3 billion in the second quarter of this year on an adjusted net income basis. Our adjusted net income
excludes net realized capital losses, discontinued operations including the goodwill charge, gains or losses on sales of
businesses, and the effects of derivatives, not on hedge accounting. So when we look at our adjusted net income of 1.3
billion for the quarter, it's clear our main businesses did very well indeed.
As you know, I joined AIG almost 12 months ago today. I came in with a very strong sense that we needed to slow
down asset sales given market conditions at the time and reviewing our restructuring strategy given that so many of our
insurance businesses were, and are as you can see, in fundamentally good shape.
Today I am very pleased to report that AIG is a strong organization, working to repay our debts to the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York and starting on a path toward becoming, once again, an independent company with U.S. taxpayers
fully repaid for their support to AIG.
Company Name: AIG
Company Ticker: AIG US
Date: 2010-08-06
Event Description: Q2 2010 Earnings Call
Market Cap: 28,568.91
Current PX: 40.93
YTD Change($): +10.95
YTD Change(%): +36.524
Bloomberg Estimates - EPS
Current Quarter: 0.865
Current Year: 4.040
Bloomberg Estimates - Sales
Current Quarter: 15516.000
Current Year: 92075.000
Page 2 of 3
The work before all of us to accomplish these goals remains immense, but we are starting to see the light at the end of
the tunnel. We are highly focused on making further progress on our restructuring. As you know, our agreement with
Prudential PLC to buy AIA, our Asian Life Insurance business, was terminated into June. We recently announced plans
to IPO AIA as soon as practical, subject of course to regulatory approvals and market conditions.
We also named a new Executive Chairman and CEO of AIA, Mark Tucker. We are very excited about Mark who has a
proven track record of building shareholder value when he served as CEO at Prudential plc in London. Mark also spent
more than 15 years building Prudential's Asian franchise. I had the pleasure of introducing Mark to several of our
regulators as well as to AIA employees in Asia a few weeks ago, their response was terrific and he has hit the ground
running.
In addition, as I noted before, we continue to expect the sale of ALICO to MetLife for some $15.5 billion in cash and
securities will close later this year. And once we have succeeded in monetizing both ALICO and AIA, we believe we
will be well within striking distance of completing our repayment of the Fed. All of this work, of course, has filled us
with a sense of urgency. When I talk with our people all over the world, I hear a profound confidence and excitement
about the future, very different than the tone 12 months ago.
There is an inherent resilience and determination here at AIG to succeed, to do what needs to be done to repay the
American people and make this company a success story for this country and for the world. Many, many terrific people
have stayed and persevered at AIG to achieve this goal and some wonderful people have joined us, including this week,
Makoto Ozeki, who rejoined AIG on Tuesday after a stint at Zurich to become EVP and Chief Operating Officer of
Chartis Far East Holdings, overseeing our Japanese P&C companies.
Last month, Elias Habayeb rejoined AIG as Senior Vice President in Investments and Financial Services, where he will
focus both on activities related to the wind down of FP as well as with Chartis on long-term strategic planning and
infrastructure issues related to insurance portfolio management.
In July, Jeff Wilikson joined as our new Corporate Secretary. In May, Henri Courpron, a well known figure in the
aviation industry, became CEO of ILFC, our International Leasing Financial Corporation. They are only the latest of
mainly highly experienced people who have become part of our existing highly dedicated team. Together we are
striving to ensure that AIG repays its debts and emerges as a stronger more focused company worthy of investor
confidence.
We are also striving to build a pay for performance culture that is transparent and awards people appropriately for the
value they bring to the organization and the stakeholders. When I came to AIG, I believe that the sum of the parts
needed be greater than the whole to achieve our vision and that we needed to focus on morale and business results. And
this quarter's results continue to show the benefits.
Just look at our mortgage guarantee business, UGC. It lost $2.5 billion pre-tax last year. This quarter is the second in a
row that UGC is profitable. The UGC team has done a great job turning around the business and positioning it to be
sustainably profitable. We stabilized the management team at ILFC and did the hard work required to shore up ILFC's
balance sheet. At AGF, our consumer finance operation, losses narrowed this quarter to 11 million compared to an
operating loss of 202 million in the second quarter of 2009.
And I'm so proud of the AIGFP team. Amid all the noise about their compensation and all the speculation about the
risk posed by their exposures, they have done an outstanding job of methodically winding down the business and
reducing the risk on AIGFP's books. Let's remember where we were in September of 2008. AIGFP had derivative
exposures totaling $2 trillion. As of the end of the second quarter 2010, that amount has been reduced by 70% to $602
billion.
Let me turn to our main insurance businesses. It's clear that our clients continue to see that AIG is strong and able to
provide real value. Together, our continuing insurance operations earned 2.2 billion in the quarter, compared with 1.5
billion in the quarter a year ago.
Company Name: AIG
Company Ticker: AIG US
Date: 2010-08-06
Event Description: Q2 2010 Earnings Call
Market Cap: 28,568.91
Current PX: 40.93
YTD Change($): +10.95
YTD Change(%): +36.524
Bloomberg Estimates - EPS
Current Quarter: 0.865
Current Year: 4.040
Bloomberg Estimates - Sales
Current Quarter: 15516.000
Current Year: 92075.000
Page 3 of 3
Chartis earned 955 million this quarter compared to 1 billion in the same quarter last year, basically flat despite
absorbing 287 million in catastrophe losses. In the past year, the company increased worldwide surplus, GAAP equity,
and net investment income while experiencing strong cash flow, improving business retention, and increased new
business premiums.
Net premiums written totaled 7.8 billion this quarter compared to 7.9 billion in the same quarter a year ago, which
reflects the weak economic environment that we are experiencing right now. Chartis has not wavered from its
commitment to underwriting discipline. In addition, employee retention continues to perform better than in past years
and Chartis is closer to its agents, brokers, and customers than ever before.
In the midst of one of the greatest environmental disasters of our time, Chartis' claims and loss mitigation teams have
moved quickly to assist our customers affected by the Gulf oil spill. Chartis incurred a net property loss of 23 million in
the second quarter, which has been paid related to this event. The company continues to monitor potential casualty
exposure on this event, but believes that its carried loss reserves as of June 30 are sufficient to cover emerging losses.
Earnings from our domestic life and retirement services segment, the SunAmerica Financial Group, improved
significantly, up 800 million to 1.1 billion from the same period last year, reflecting an increase in net investment
income from partnerships, a $234 million increase in the fair value of the retained interest in Maiden Lane II, and lower
DAC and sales inducement amortization related to net realized capital losses.
SunAmerica Financial Group continues to make significant progress in reestablishing relationships, and reinvigorating
sales for the distribution partners. Premiums, deposits and other considerations grew by 21% to $5 billion compared to
the second quarter of 2009, as individual fixed annuities, group retirement products, and individual variable annuities
all reported increases in sales. Surrender rates have improved for the group retirement products and individual fixed
annuities.
Life insurance sales were significantly higher than in the second quarter 2009, driven by higher term and private
placement variable universal life sold through independent distribution. In addition, sales of universal life and term life
insurance products, distributed through career agents, were up significantly from the second quarter of 2009. Once
again, I'd like to conclude by expressing our appreciation for support that we've received from the people of this
country.
As I have said before, we are taking the right steps to ensure that we can earn your confidence, the confidence of the
marketplace and the broader community. As you will see in our 10-Q, we have commenced discussions with the U.S.
Government on the process and terms for a complete government exit from AIG. Depending of course on market
conditions, which could remain volatile, we expect to make meaningful progress in 2010 on repaying the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York and over time, fully repaying all of our obligations to taxpayers.
We believe we will be able to do that because of two things. The unrelenting commitment of our people to restoring
AIG as an independent company, and the fundamental strength of our underlying businesses, which every day provide
real value to our customers and stakeholders.
Thank you very much for listening to us today.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2010, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.