Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2014-10-24
Event Description: Q3 2014 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income Call
Page 1 of 8
Q3 2014 Earnings Call - Fixed Income Call
Company Participants
• Steve Dahle
• Michael L. Seneski
• Neil M. Schloss
• Stuart John Rowley
Other Participants
• Brian J. Jacoby
• Douglas Karson
• Eric Selle
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third Quarter Ford Fixed Income Conference Call. My name is
Katina, and I'll be your coordinator for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will
facilitate a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for
replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call, Mr. Steve Dahle, Manager, Ford Fixed
Income, Investor Relations. Please proceed.
Steve Dahle
Thank you, Katina, and good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to all of you who are joining us either by phone
or webcast. On behalf of the entire Ford management team, I'd like to thank you for spending time with us this
morning.
With me this morning are Michael Seneski, Ford Credit Chief Financial Officer; Neil Schloss, Ford Vice President and
Treasurer; and Stuart Rowley, Ford Vice President and Controller.
We also have some other members of the management team with us who are joining for the call today; Marion Harris,
Assistant Treasurer; Brian Schaaf, Assistant Treasurer; Paul Andonian, Director of Global Accounting; and George
Sharp, Executive Director of Investor Relations.
Before we begin, I would like to review a few items. A copy of this morning's press release and Fixed Income slides
that we will be using today have been posted on Ford's Investor and Media websites for your reference.
The financial results discussed herein are presented on a preliminary basis. Final data will be included in our Form
10-Q. Additionally, the financial results presented here are on a GAAP basis and in some cases on a non-GAAP basis.
Any non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this call are reconciled to the U.S. GAAP equivalent as part of the
appendix to the slide deck.
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2014-10-24
Event Description: Q3 2014 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income Call
Page 2 of 8
Finally, today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for Ford's future
performance. Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments here. The most significant
factors that could affect future results are summarized at the end of this presentation. These risk factors and other key
information are detailed in our SEC filings, including our Annual, Quarterly and Current Reports to the SEC.
With that, I would like to turn the call over to Ford Credit CFO, Michael Seneski. Michael?
Michael L. Seneski
Thanks, Steve. Consistent with prior quarters, today's presentation will cover Ford Credit's profit and credit loss
performance, Ford Credit's funding and liquidity highlights, automotive cash, debt and liquidity, and then we'll wrap
things up with a summary of the quarter.
Let's turn to Ford Credit's operating highlights on slide one. Ford Credit remains key to Ford's global growth and value
creation strategy, providing world-class dealer and customer financial services, maintaining a strong balance sheet, and
producing solid profits and distributions. Ford Credit had another solid quarter with pre-tax profit of $498 million and
net income of $718 million. The net income reflects approximately $360 million of favorable tax items recorded in the
third quarter.
Managed receivables were $110 billion at the end of the third quarter, up $7 billion from year-end 2013, and up $11
billion from a year ago. The third quarter loss-to-receivables ratio was 17 basis points, down 2 basis points from a year
ago, while charge-offs were [ph] $48 million (3:34) [inaudible] (3:35) from a year ago. At September 30, the allowance
for credit losses or reserve was $356 million, or 32 basis points of managed receivables. Managed leverage was 8.5 to 1
at September 30, equal to December 31, 2013. At the end of the third quarter, our equity was $11.3 billion.
On slide two, Ford Credit's higher pre-tax profit this quarter compared with a year ago is more than explained by higher
volume.
This reflects increases in nearly all financing products, including non-consumer and consumer finance receivables in all
geographic segments and leasing in North America. As shown in the memo, pre-tax profit was higher than the second
quarter, explained primarily by a lower level of insurance losses in North America, which is included in Other.
For the full year, Ford Credit continues to expect pre-tax profit of $1.8 billion to $1.9 billion. Our guidance for
year-end managed receivables and managed leverage is unchanged, and Ford Credit now expects distributions to its
parent of about $400 million, up from prior guidance of about $250 million. This increase is primarily driven by the
favorable tax items I mentioned earlier.
Slide three shows our quarterly trends of charge-offs, loss-to-receivables ratio, and credit loss reserve. Year-over-year
charge-offs were consistent, while the loss-to-receivables ratio was 2 basis points lower than a year ago. Our
quarter-over-quarter increases in charge-offs of $15 million and loss-to-receivables ratio of 5 basis points are consistent
with normal seasonality. The loss-to-receivables ratio of 17 basis points is well below our 10-year average of 54 basis
points. The credit loss reserve was $356 million, down $12 million from a year ago, reflecting the continuation of low
losses.
Slide four shows the primary drivers of credit losses in the U.S. retail and lease business, which comprises about 72%
of our worldwide consumer portfolio. First, it's important to note that we remain consistent in our origination practices.
Over 60-day delinquencies were 15 basis points, down 1 basis point from a year ago, and up 3 basis points from the
second quarter.
Repossessions in the third quarter were 7,000 units or 1.07% of average accounts outstanding, down 17 basis points
from a year ago and up 9 basis points from the second quarter. The increase from the second quarter is below seasonal
trend and 1.07% represents a third, our lowest third quarter result on record.
Severity was $8,100 in the third quarter, up $600 from the same period a year ago, and up $800 from the prior quarter.
Both increases reflect lower auction values on repossessed vehicles, which declined about $700 more than our seasonal
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2014-10-24
Event Description: Q3 2014 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income Call
Page 3 of 8
expectations. The declines in our auction value were consistent with Manheim, when adjusted the Ford Credit's mix of
vehicles, with reductions especially pronounced in later model used vehicles, which are typical of our repossessions.
Third quarter charge-offs were down $3 million and LTR was down 5 basis points from the prior year. Both
charge-offs and LTR were up from the second quarter reflecting normal seasonality.
Slide five shows the U.S. Ford and Lincoln lease residual performance. Lease return volumes in the third quarter were
17,000 units higher than the same period last year, primarily reflecting higher lease placements in 2011 and 2012
compared with prior years. The third quarter lease return rate was 75%, up 6 percentage points compared with the same
period last year.
In the third quarter, our auction values for 24-month contracts decreased by about $950, while 36-month average
auction value decreased by about $200 compared with the same period last year. The differences in 24 month and 36
month auction value performance, primarily reflect differences in mix and model year refresh timing. Both our 24
month and 36 month auction value decreased from the second quarter and the declines reflect the same industry trend
noted previously. We expect our auction values to decline further in the fourth quarter consistent with normal
seasonality.
Our worldwide net investment in operating leases was $20.9 billion at the end of the third quarter, up about $2.6 billion
from year-end 2013, and up $3.6 billion from a year ago.
Now, I'll turn it over to Neil.
Neil M. Schloss
Thanks, Mike. Turning to slide six, we are on track to achieve our 2014 funding plan. Year-to-date, we have issued $24
billion. In the third quarter, we completed $6 billion of funding in the public term markets, consisting of about $4
billion of unsecured debt in the U.S., Canada and Mexico, as well as our first ever public issuance in Brazil. In the
public asset-backed market, we completed over $2 billion in the U.S.
We also completed a $2 billion R&D syndicated term loan in China for our wholly owned credit subsidiary.
Additionally in October, we completed our second five year U.S. retail revolving ABS transaction what we call
FordREV with proceeds of about $1.3 billion. We ended the quarter with net liquidity of $27 billion, which was flat
from the second quarter.
Our funding strategy remains focused on diversification, and we plan to continue accessing a variety of markets,
channels and investors. We remain focused on maintaining a strong investment-grade balance sheet.
Slide seven shows our projected 2014 public funding plan for Ford Credit, excluding our short-term funding programs.
We project full year public term funding in the range of $26 billion to $29 billion, consisting of $11 billion to $14
billion of unsecured debt and $14 billion to $15 billion of public securitizations. And we have completed $24 billion of
funding year-to-date.
Slide eight shows the trends in our funding for our managed receivables. [Inaudible] (9:42) receivables were $110
billion and we ended the quarter with about $11 billion in cash. Securitized funding was 39% of managed receivables.
We project year-end managed receivables of $112 billion to $115 billion and securitized funding, as a percent of
managed receivables, in the range of 37% to 39%. This percentage will continue to decline over time.
Turning to slide nine, our net liquidity remains strong at $27 billion, about the same as the second quarter. Ford Credit's
source of liquidity includes cash, committed asset-backed lines, unsecured credit facilities, and the corporate revolver
allocation. As of September 30, our liquidity sources, including cash, totaled $47.5 billion, up about $1 billion from the
second quarter. We remain focused on maintaining liquidity levels that meet our business and funding requirements
through economic cycles.
Slide 10 shows that automotive debt at the end of the quarter was $14.9 billion, $500 million lower than the second
quarter. Ford ended the quarter with net cash of $7.9 billion and automotive liquidity of $33.6 billion. Earlier this week,
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2014-10-24
Event Description: Q3 2014 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income Call
Page 4 of 8
Ford gave notice to holders of its 2016 convertible notes to terminate its conversion rights and redeem outstanding
notes. This action will reduce automotive debt by about $800 million in the fourth quarter with no significant impact on
cash flow.
Now let's close with a summary of the third quarter. The company delivered its 21st consecutive profitable quarter and
ended the period with strong liquidity. Automotive operating related cash flow, however, was negative to unfavorable
changes in working capital, including product launch effects. North America and Asia-Pacific were profitable, but
pre-tax profits were lower than a year ago for all automotive business units, except Middle East and Africa.
Company pre-tax profit was in line with expectation and consistent with the guidance provided at the September
Investor Day of company full-year pre-tax profit of about $6 billion, which it reconfirmed earlier today. It was,
however, lower than a year ago.
Looking forward, 12 of Ford's 23 global product launches are complete and the balance are continuing to progress,
including the all-new F-150. These launches, along with the 16 planned for 2015 are expected to result next year in
higher revenue, improved operating margin, and a company pre-tax profit of $8.5 billion to $9.5 billion.
For Ford Credit, we continue to deliver strong results that were better than a year ago. Ford Credit receivables
increased 11% from a year ago, ending the quarter with $110 billion. Our consistent purchase policy and world-class
servicing continues to result in strong portfolio performance.
Our diversified funding plan is on track as we completed $24 billion of public term funding year-to-date and we had
strong liquidity of $27 billion at the end of the quarter. Ford Credit continues to deliver on its core elements of its Ford
support strategy, outstanding products and services, a strong balance sheet and consistent profitability.
And now, I'll turn it over to Steve to start the Q&A session.
Steve Dahle
Thank you, Neil. We that, we will start the Q&A session. Katina, may we please have the first caller?
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from the line of Brian Jacoby, representing Goldman
Sachs. Please proceed.
<Q - Brian J. Jacoby>: Hi. Good morning, guys. A couple quick ones. You did cover a lot of stuff on the earnings
call, but part of it – I didn't get a chance to hear all of it – was related to some of the explanation around the cash flow
in the Other category. There was a pretty big cash outflow there. Can you just kind of quickly go over maybe some of
the buckets there that led to that?
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Brian, this is Stuart. When we say in the Other category, do you mean the dividends and
other items?
<Q - Brian J. Jacoby>: Yes.
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: The $1.6 billion.
<Q - Brian J. Jacoby>: Correct. Yep.
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Okay. So there is just two things in there, Brian. The dividends they were $0.5 dollars in
the quarter and then the balance of $1.1 billion is the conclusion of our share buyback program. So in total, that through
the year that has been $2 billion. $1.1 billion of that in the third quarter.
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2014-10-24
Event Description: Q3 2014 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income Call
Page 5 of 8
<Q - Brian J. Jacoby>: Great. And then, again I know you touched on this a little bit on the call, the previous call, but
the working capital side you are saying that a good chunk of that is going to reverse in the fourth quarter. How much I
guess of that is just related to obviously what's going on with the F-Series versus other items?
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Yeah, Brian. Of the $1.5 billion, the majority of that is related to payables, lower
production. The payables balances at quarter end, primarily in North America, but also in Europe. And that's associated
with the downtime we've taken at our plants including Dearborn truck as we change over to the new products. The
balance of it is higher inventories and we – as Bob said in the call, we expect the majority of that to reverse in the
fourth quarter and so we'll have a positive capital in Q4.
<Q - Brian J. Jacoby>: Okay, great. Then last one; just it's more of kind of what was brought up around capital
allocation and just looking out at your debt levels. I think it was mentioned on the earnings call that you are still going
to review your target of getting debt down to $10 billion. Obviously you pushed that target out a few years when you
had the September 29 Analyst Day. But I guess the question is it sounds like from hearing the earnings call that you are
still kind of considering that and there could be further changes. Perhaps is it like over the next year you could
reconsider that, or is it something more like longer-term you are thinking about how much debt the company should
have?
Just speaking as a credit guy, we would prefer you guys have low leverage at the manufacturing business, so that way
when things get bad you are still able to invest in a product. But I'm just trying to think about with that comment meant.
Is it still under review or you thinking more longer-term there?
<A - Neil M. Schloss>: No. I think if I go back – this is Neil – if I go back to what we said at Investor Day and the
reason we slipped the $10 billion from mid-decade to 2018 was a – just was natural maturities. When we set the $10
billion, originally we had an expectation that rates were going to go up and we would have opportunity to buyback that
closure to par than it is presently. So as a result of that, we slipped it out. Our plans are to take the debt down to $10
billion. I think Bob's comment this morning and what we're strategically looking at is when we think about leverage in
total, not only debt but also the underfunded pension plan. And we think about what the appropriate leverage is for the
business, as it grows and as it gets bigger, we ought to reconsider the different aspects of it and we'll be fully funded on
our funded plans and at that point of business potentially could afford a little bit more debt, but it's not tomorrow.
<Q - Brian J. Jacoby>: Understood, okay. That makes sense. Thanks for that. All right, that's it from me. Thank you.
<A - Steve Dahle>: Thanks, Brian.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Karson representing Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please proceed.
<Q - Douglas Karson>: Thanks, guys. I had a couple questions. I guess the first one is broader industry. I've been
getting a lot of questions from investors about used car prices falling. I mean look at Manheim, I think it's only down
1% or 2%. And then I also look at Autodata, which is not the best representation of incentive spending but kind of the
only one we have, and it looks like it is significantly up. So there seems to be something kind of going on in the
incentive world. I think Ford's was up somewhere around 20%, and that data may not be 100% accurate. But,
nonetheless, can you give me a little bit of flavor of what you are kind of seeing in this incentive environment, and if
it's so going up why? And what's really driving the used car price kind of fears?
<A - Michael L. Seneski>: Let me – I'll handle the used car answer, Doug, and then Stuart can talk a little bit about the
incentive. You are right that Manheim is down about 2% quarter-over-quarter, but remember that includes vehicles
kind of one-year-old to about eight-year-old. It's actually a little bit more severe in the one-year-old to three-year-old
range, which is going to affect us and other captives a little bit more. But if you go back in time a little bit, remember
used car prices stayed pretty high for a really long time and we all kept pretending that they were going to come down,
and we actually started depreciating in advance of that in the third quarter of last year, and in fact they have come
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2014-10-24
Event Description: Q3 2014 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income Call
Page 6 of 8
down. So, we continue to expect a little bit more moderation and we're planning for that accordingly in the credit
company. Stuart, if you want to talk about incentives.
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: In terms of incentive spending here in the U.S. market, I mean, we are [indiscernible]
(20:15). We're down slightly on a year-on-year basis, about 2% to 3% in terms of our incentive spend against a very
small increase for the industry as a whole.
As we discussed on the call, particularly around F-150, as we manage our inventory, as we go into the changeover of
product, we've been very deliberate in the way that we've incentivized the outgoing model. We are limited in terms of
the amount of production we have and that allows us to maximize our margins in this environment. I think the other –
we mentioned on the call, I think one of the analysts asked and was correct in their assertion that the net pricing
environment is stronger on utilities and trucks than it is on the passenger car segment.
<Q - Douglas Karson>: Great, that's helpful. And then, maybe just a quick question. You certainly probably touched
on this during the call, but on the slide 2014 for Europe it looks like industry share in stock is kind of up and
commodities and materials were supportive. The big drag was in, I guess, component pricing and other was negative
$302 million. I kind of missed what that other was, the negative $137 million, and just maybe a little more color on the
component pricing, some shortages. I just couldn't get that all.
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: The component pricing there is – that's – that is prices of components that we supply to
third parties, as well as to our joint ventures, and we adjust those – most of those price on a cost plus basis and as we
see cost changes that are reflected in the contribution cost column there or exchange impacts, we pass those prices
through. So that – this is the – in Other here we reflect those component price changes. And that includes prices of
components going to our Ford Sollers joint venture, and you see on the right-hand side there, the $83 million variance
for Russia in total, which is across all of the individual bars, the majority of it would fall in this Other category.
You can see we also had some prior year gains, including some land sales last year; so obviously, they don't repeat.
And then, we had lower parts and accessories profits. And then, there's a number of things in the final Other there and
we're not breaking that down further.
<Q - Douglas Karson>: Okay, very good. Then just, finally, so I'm straight on South America, it looks like the first
nine months there was a $975 million loss and the outlook for the full year is $1 billion. So is it safe to say that
mathematically we are kind of approaching breakeven in South America next quarter?
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Yeah, so – yeah, obviously, as you point out the math there, so we expect a smaller loss in
the fourth quarter in South America and consistent with our guidance have about $1 billion loss. And the
improvement's really driven by the fact that we've launched the new Ford car there. We only had part of a quarter of
production in the third quarter and we'll have more of a full quarter in the fourth, and that's a very important product for
us.
<Q - Douglas Karson>: That's very helpful. And the bottom of that slide 12 is balance sheet effects of $109 million. Is
that currency?
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Yes, that's it is. It's primarily in Argentina and in Venezuela, so it's the effect of the
currency changes on the balance sheet.
<Q - Douglas Karson>: Okay.
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: And we're doing that to breakout for investors to consider those separately from the
operating effects because they tend to be, obviously, one-time in nature as they flow through, whereas the operating
affects. We're really focused on pricing to recover those operating affects, we have less ability to do so on the balance
sheet items.
<Q - Douglas Karson>: Great. All right, that's it for me. Thank you very much. It was helpful.
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Thanks, Doug.
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2014-10-24
Event Description: Q3 2014 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income Call
Page 7 of 8
Operator
[Operator Instructions]. Your next question comes from the line of Eric Selle representing SunTrust. Please proceed.
<Q - Eric Selle>: Hey guys, how are you doing?
<A - Michael L. Seneski>: Hey Eric, how are you.
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Hey, Eric.
<Q - Eric Selle>: Good to be back, but as usual, I am a little confused. I thought we all knew this was a transition year
for you guys. Your stock has been down versus the market and a little confused by this. I guess my question is how do
you get the equity market to focus on your 50% profit growth in 2015 and the fact that you're free cash flow generation
accrues to the equity valuation? You guys spent $1.6 billion on shareholders in the quarter and the stock didn't respond
and your credit profile was flat. Have you guys gone back to the woodshed and tried to figure out how to shock the
market? Because it seems like the market is acting irrational to the valuation accrual that you guys give the equity guys.
<A - Neil M. Schloss>: I guess I'm not sure exactly how to respond to that, this is Neil. But thanks for the question,
Eric. I think our philosophy is to continue to communicate with our investors, with where we see the business, where
we see it going, what are the key attributes associated with it. We did the Investor Day. We were transparent on what –
how we see the environment and how we see the business going forward both in the near-term, but also clearly laying
out our vision for what the future has. And our guidance for 2015 is a significant improvement over the 2014 levels.
And our expectation is, as we execute that, we will get credit for it.
<Q - Eric Selle>: And I guess another question on that same line is what milestones would you need to see/you did see
in the quarter to unleash the free cash flow and equity? And then how do you balance that with the goal of becoming A
rated?
<A - Neil M. Schloss>: Well, I think in a broad sense, if you go back to what we said in September, we've got a
number of capital allocation calls, the biggest one is obviously to continue the growth in the product development
world. And we're going to continue to focus on that as we see ourselves growing in many parts around the world. We
also laid out pretty clearly in that pie chart that debt and pension is becoming a smaller piece of our capital allocation
on a percentage basis than it had been before and shareholder actions are bigger piece as we go forward, compared to
where it's been before and again we'll prove it overtime and we'll get credit as that happens.
<Q - Eric Selle>: And I unfortunately missed the Analyst Day because I heard glowing reviews of the F-150, and you
know I like getting out on that track, Neil, but did you guys give any buckets to bridge us to the 2015 guidance? And
specifically, we can all do the production gains through ISM and all that, but have you guys specifically allocated what
the F-150 launch cost hit in 2014? And obviously it will give you [inaudible] (28:08).
<A - Neil M. Schloss>: No.
<Q - Eric Selle>: Okay. That's all.
<A - Neil M. Schloss>: Thanks, Eric.
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Thanks, Eric.
Operator
With no further questions at this time, I would now like to turn the call back to Mr. Steve Dahle for closing remarks.
Steve Dahle
Thank you, Katina. With that, I'd like to conclude today's call. Thank you all for joining us.
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2014-10-24
Event Description: Q3 2014 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income Call
Page 8 of 8
Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the
presentation. You may now disconnect. Good day.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.