Company Name: H.J. Heinz
Company Ticker: HNZ US
Date: 2014-03-20
Event Description: Q5 2014 Earnings Call
Market Cap: N.A.
Current PX: N.A.
YTD Change($): N.A.
YTD Change(%): N.A.
Bloomberg Estimates - EPS
Current Quarter: 1.045
Current Year: 3.805
Bloomberg Estimates - Sales
Current Quarter: 3053.250
Current Year: 12111.667
Page 1 of 3
Q5 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Marcos Romaneiro
• Paulo Luiz Araújo Basílio
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning. My name is Brent and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome
everyone to the H.J. Heinz Company 2013 Transition Period Earnings Conference Call. This call is being recorded at
the request of the H.J. Heinz Company.
Today's presentation includes forward-looking statements as defined in the U.S. Securities Laws, which are based on
current expectations subject to uncertainty and changes and circumstances, and which are not a guarantee of future
performance. Actual results may differ materially due to a variety of factors including the Risk Factors section of
Heinz's latest Form 10-K, which was filed on March 7. Heinz undertakes no obligation to publicly update any
forward-looking statement except as required by law. Today's remarks will also include non-GAAP financial measures
which are reconciled to GAAP numbers in Heinz's 10-K filing. SEC filings are available on Heinz's website at the
Investor Relations page.
I would now like to turn the call over to Marcos Romaneiro, Senior Vice President, Global Finance. Mr. Romaneiro,
you may begin your conference.
Marcos Romaneiro
Good morning and welcome to Heinz earnings conference call to discuss the eight-month transition period ended
December 29, 2013. I'm Marcos Romaneiro, and I'm here with Paulo Basílio, Chief Financial Officer. On today's call,
Paulo and I will be discussing the combined predecessor and successor results from February 8 through December 29,
2013, which includes eight months or 35 weeks of operating results.
In our comments today, we'll be comparing it to the same period a year ago which contained one fewer week. This
shortened fiscal year reflects the plan change in our fiscal year-end from the Sunday closes to April 30 to the Sunday
closes to December 31. From this going forward, our quarter ends will align with the calendar quarters with our first
quarter scheduled to end in 10 days' time on Sunday, March 30.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Paulo.
Paulo Luiz Araújo Basílio
Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us, as we take you through Heinz performance over this eight-month
transition period. As you'll see in our results, our organic sales trends are improving and the actions we have taken all
over the world to improve profitability are having a positive impact. The company sales were $7.4 billion, a 1.2%
decrease versus prior year. This reflects some favorable foreign currency impact of 1.8%, divestitures of 0.4% partially
offset by favorable volume of 0.8% and favorable pricing of 0.3%.
Company Name: H.J. Heinz
Company Ticker: HNZ US
Date: 2014-03-20
Event Description: Q5 2014 Earnings Call
Market Cap: N.A.
Current PX: N.A.
YTD Change($): N.A.
YTD Change(%): N.A.
Bloomberg Estimates - EPS
Current Quarter: 1.045
Current Year: 3.805
Bloomberg Estimates - Sales
Current Quarter: 3053.250
Current Year: 12111.667
Page 2 of 3
Operating income was impacted by three groups of one-time costs and purchase account impact, which totaled $1.1
billion. First, we incurred about $416 million in productivity initiatives to simplify the organization, drive efficiency
and provide resources to reinvest in growing the business. About $275 million of this was severance and benefit costs
to reduce our global workforce by about 3,400 positions or about 10%. The remaining $141 million included
professional fees and costs to terminate contracts and leases along with charges to close several [indiscernible] (03:23)
and corporate offices.
Second, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments totaling $414 million. These included $383 million of leased-out
opening inventory and a step-up of intangible asset amortization of $34 million. And finally, we incurred $270 million
in merger transaction-related costs including advisory fees and professional costs.
The low operating income, net interest expense increased by $260 million reflecting higher debt balances from the
merger. Other expense increased by $133 million, the cost of early retired of merger-related debt. These costs were
partially offset by $118 million gain on interest rate swaps agreements entered into prior to the merger, to mitigate
exposure to variable rate debt. Setting aside these items, gross margin was comparable to prior year, operating income
increased by low single-digits despite the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange and our adjusted EBITDA was flat
versus prior year demonstrating continued improvement throughout the year to offset a lower first quarter. We expect
this favorable trend to continue in the future quarters.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Marcos to provide an overview of our results by geography segment and our cash
flow performance.
Marcos Romaneiro
Thank you, Paulo. Turning to North America consumer products, sales decreased by $70 million or 3.4%. This
included our net volume decrease of 1.8%, as the additional week of sales was more than offset by category softness in
frozen potatoes and frozen nutritional entrees. It also reflects reduced Heinz Ketchup promotions as we shifted some of
our spending to working media including our recent Super Bowl commercial. Decreased pricing of 0.7% was driven by
higher promotional activity in our frozen portfolio and foreign exchange unfavorably impacted sales by 0.8%.
Operating income decreased $170 million, reflecting unfavorable purchase accounting impacts of $140 million and
lower volume which was partially offset by favorable SG&A.
Looking next at the U.S. food service segment, sales increased by $36 million or 4.2%. These results were driven by
increased volume of 2.1% reflecting the impact of the additional week in ketchup and sauces growth, partially offset by
decreases in frozen soup, pricing increased sales by 2%. Operating income was roughly flat to last year despite a $34
million unfavorable purchase accounting adjustment, reflecting benefit from the current year restructuring initiatives.
Turning to Europe, sales decreased $10 million or 0.5%. Volume was roughly flat despite the extra week and strong
performance in Russia and Germany due to category softness in the UK, Italy, and Netherlands. A 1.1% benefit from
foreign exchange was more than offset by divestitures of 1.4% and unfavorable pricing of 0.4%. Operating income
decreased by $146 million including $110 million in unfavorable purchase accounting adjustments. The balance of
decrease reflects the higher product costs and increased marketing spend in Russia and Italy.
Moving to the Asia-Pacific region, sales decreased $47 million or 2.8%. Unfavorable foreign exchange translation rates
drove more than all of this decrease at 6.3%. Volume increased by 3.1% reflecting the extra week and strong
performance in China, Japan and Indonesia, partially offset by decreases in India. Pricing increased by 0.4%. Operating
income decreased $120 million, reflecting $90 million of unfavorable purchase accounting adjustments. The balance
reflects unfavorable foreign exchange translation rate, partially offset by lower SG&A expenses.
Finally, in our rest of the world segment, sales increased by $5 million or 0.6% driven by volume growth of 3.3% from
the extra week and volume gains across the segment. Pricing increased sales by 2.6% driven by Brazil and partially
offset by Venezuela. Foreign exchange translation rates decreased sales by 5.3%. Operating income increased by $3
million overcoming $10 million of unfavorable impact from purchase accounting adjustment, and the impact of
Company Name: H.J. Heinz
Company Ticker: HNZ US
Date: 2014-03-20
Event Description: Q5 2014 Earnings Call
Market Cap: N.A.
Current PX: N.A.
YTD Change($): N.A.
YTD Change(%): N.A.
Bloomberg Estimates - EPS
Current Quarter: 1.045
Current Year: 3.805
Bloomberg Estimates - Sales
Current Quarter: 3053.250
Current Year: 12111.667
Page 3 of 3
unfavorable foreign exchange. This favorable result reflects the benefit from the current year restructuring initiatives.
Next, let's take a look at cash flow for the transition period. Cash from operating activities was negative $337 million
compared to a positive $350 million a year ago. This $687 million decrease reflects the one-time merger and
restructuring costs, charges incurred on early extinguishment of debt and higher interest payments.
Cash used for investing activities totaled $21.8 billion, reflecting the merger consideration, net of cash on hand of $21.5
billion. Capital spending net of proceeds from disposals was $360 million, which was slightly higher than the prior year
as a percent of sales at 4.3%. This was primarily driven by $88 million lease buy-out under the change of control
provision.
Cash provided by financing activities totaled $24.1 billion. The merger was funded by equity contribution totaling
$16.5 billion, approximately $9.5 billion of proceeds drawn under the senior credit facilities and $3.1 billion from the
issuance of notes. This was partially offset by $4.3 billion in debt repayments and $321 million in debt issuance cost.
We also made two preferred stock dividend payments totaling $360 million.
On December 29, 2013, the company had total debt of $14.9 billion and cash and cash equivalents of $2.5 billion. We
expect the cash and cash equivalents will be utilized to liquidate accrued obligations under the merger agreement, pay
preferred stock dividend, meet seasonal working capital requirements and fund future restructuring expenses.
Now, I'd like to turn the call back to Paulo for a few closing remarks.
Paulo Luiz Araújo Basílio
Thank you, Marcos. Our results demonstrate that Heinz is an organization that can deliver improving top-line results
while increasing profitability. This will continue to be the foundation for our 2014 plan. We have demonstrated our
commitment to the consumer and our brand with the first Super Bowl commercial in 16 years along with a renewed
focus on innovation. We are creating an efficient platform to drive growth through the implementation of
[indiscernible] (10:18) and other leading edge processes that will create a sustainable competitive advantage for Heinz.
We are continuing to uphold the company's unwavering dedication to product quality, food safety, and employee safety
in line with our founder's vision. Marcos and I look forward to talking to you again in a short month to discuss the first
quarter of our new year. Thank you and have a great day.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2014, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.