Company Name: H.J. Heinz
Company Ticker: HNZ US
Date: 2014-08-20
Event Description: Q2 2014 Earnings Call
Market Cap: N.A.
Current PX: N.A.
YTD Change($): N.A.
YTD Change(%): N.A.
Bloomberg Estimates - EPS
Current Quarter: 1.045
Current Year: 3.805
Bloomberg Estimates - Sales
Current Quarter: 3053.250
Current Year: 12111.667
Page 1 of 2
Q2 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Paulo Luiz Araújo Basílio
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning. My name is Lisa and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome
everyone to the H.J. Heinz Company Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. This call is being recorded at the
request of the H.J. Heinz Company.
Today's presentation includes forward-looking statements as defined in the U.S. securities laws, which are based on
current expectations, subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances and which are not a guarantee of future
performance. Actual results may differ materially due to a variety of factors, including the Risk Factors listed in
Heinz's Form 10-KT, which was filed on March 7. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking
statement except as required by law.
Today's remarks will also include non-GAAP financial measures, which are reconciled to GAAP numbers in the
second quarter 2014 Form 10-Q, which was filed by the H.J. Heinz Corporation on August 12. These and other SEC
filings are available on Heinz's website at the Investor Relations page.
I would now like to turn the call over to Paulo Basílio, Executive Vice President and CFO. Mr. Basílio, you may begin
your conference.
Paulo Luiz Araújo Basílio
Good morning. Thank you for joining me to review Heinz's results for the second quarter and first half of calendar
2014. In my remarks today, I will be combining last year's predecessor and successor periods, in order to compare this
year's results to prior year on a like-for-like basis.
Second-quarter sales were $2.7 billion, down 4.3% from last year. Slightly more than half of this decrease, or about
2.3%, was timing-related, reflecting our decision to accelerate shipments into Q1 ahead of our U.S. SAP cut-over.
Excluding this impact, organic sales, or volume plus price, declined 1%, with volume down 3.3%, and pricing up 2.3%.
Foreign currency impacts were unfavorable by 0.8%, and divestitures impacted sales by 0.2%.
Adjusted EBITDA, as detailed on page 64 of our 10-Q, increased by 35%, reflecting higher gross margin and SG&A
savings delivered by our prior year initiatives and our ongoing focus on cost control.
I'll now briefly cover the second quarter results of each of our five reporting segments: Turning first to North America,
Q2 sales of $966 million were down 12.2% versus last year, on 12% lower volume. Half of the volume decrease was
due to the acceleration of sales into Q1 ahead of our U.S. SAP go-live. The other half reflects category softness, largely
in Frozen Nutritional meals, and product rationalization in U.S. Consumer Products. Price was favorable by 0.8%,
while Canadian foreign exchange decreased sales by 1.1%.
Adjusted EBITDA grew 12%, mainly from the restructuring and productivity initiatives we put in place last year.
Turning to Europe, sales were up 3.9% in Q2, driven by favorable foreign exchange of 7.8%. Volume declined 3.3%,
primarily due to softness in the UK soup category. Divestiture also decreased sales by 0.7%, and pricing was flat
Company Name: H.J. Heinz
Company Ticker: HNZ US
Date: 2014-08-20
Event Description: Q2 2014 Earnings Call
Market Cap: N.A.
Current PX: N.A.
YTD Change($): N.A.
YTD Change(%): N.A.
Bloomberg Estimates - EPS
Current Quarter: 1.045
Current Year: 3.805
Bloomberg Estimates - Sales
Current Quarter: 3053.250
Current Year: 12111.667
Page 2 of 2
overall. Adjusted EBITDA grew 57%, also from restructuring and productivity initiatives.
Moving to Asia/Pacific, sales decreased by 2.3%, driven by unfavorable foreign exchange of 6.8%. Volume was higher
by 1.4%, and pricing added 3%. Adjusted EBITDA grew 28%, reflecting restructuring and productivity savings.
In Latin America, sales decreased in Q2 by 8%. Volume declined by 16.7% while pricing increased by nearly 14%.
Unfavorable foreign exchange rates decreased sales by 5%.
Adjusted EBITDA grew 18%, as the decrease in gross profit was more than offset by lower SG&A. In RIMEA, Q2
sales increased by 7.6%. This segment recorded volume growth of 11% and favorable price of 4.6%. Unfavorable
foreign exchange decreased sales by 8.1% and adjusted EBITDA grew 43%.
On a year-to-date basis total company sales were down 3.1%, on unfavorable foreign exchange of 1.6% and an organic
sales decrease of 1.3%. Divestitures reduced sales by another 0.2%.
Adjusted EBITDA increased by 34%, reflecting a reduction in cost of products sold and SG&A savings driven by prior
year productivity initiatives.
Year-to-date, we delivered cash flow from operations of $847 million, compared to $550 million last year. Cash used
for productivity and restructuring initiatives was $128 million this year, against less than $10 million at this time last
year.
To conclude, Heinz remains on track to deliver our goals for 2014, while increasing investments in our brands to
accelerate innovation.
Thank you and have a great day.
Operator
This does conclude toady's conference call. You may now disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2014, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.