Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 21
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Lance M. Fritz
• Eric L. Butler
• Cameron A. Scott
• Robert M. Knight, Jr.
Other Participants
• J. David Scott Vernon
• Kenneth Scott Hoexter
• Jason H. Seidl
• Thomas Wadewitz
• Robert H. Salmon
• Tom Kim
• Scott H. Group
• Allison M. Landry
• Justin Long
• Alexander Vecchio
• Chris Wetherbee
• Bascome Majors
• Brandon Robert Oglenski
• Cherilyn Radbourne
• John Barnes
• Matt Troy
• Cleo Zagrean
• Ben J. Hartford
• Jeffrey Kauffman
• Donald Allen Broughton
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Greetings. Welcome to the Union Pacific Third Quarter Earnings Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only
mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]
As a reminder, this conference is being recorded and the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's
website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Lance Fritz, Chairman, President and CEO for Union Pacific. Thank
you. Mr. Fritz, you may now begin.
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 21
Lance M. Fritz
Thank you, and good morning, everybody. Welcome to Union Pacific's third quarter conference call. With me here
today in Omaha are Eric Butler, Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales; Cameron Scott, Executive Vice
President of Operations; and Rob Knight, our Chief Financial Officer.
This morning, Union Pacific is reporting net income of $1.3 billion for the third quarter 2015. This equates to $1.50 per
share which is down 2% compared to the third quarter of 2014. Total volumes decreased about 6% in the quarter, more
than offsetting another quarter of solid core pricing gains. Carload volume declined in five of our six commodity
groups with coal down the most at 15%. Automotive was the one commodity group with a year-over-year increase in
the quarter with carloads up 5% versus 2014.
On the cost side, we've made significant progress aligning our resources to current demand, and I'm pleased to report a
quarterly record operating ratio of 60.3%. Going forward, we'll be intently focused on generating further productivity
improvements. In addition, developing new business remains an important part of our strategy whether we grow
existing markets, develop new business with existing customers, or find new market opportunities, our commercial
team is constantly filling the business development pipeline.
I am encouraged with the progress we've made as the men and women of Union Pacific worked tirelessly and safely to
serve our customers and deliver value to our shareholders.
With that, I will turn it over to Eric.
Eric L. Butler
Thanks, Lance, and good morning. In the third quarter, our volume was down 6.5% with gains in Automotive more
than offset by declines in the other business groups. We generated core pricing gains of 3.5%, but it was not enough to
offset decreased fuel surcharge and mix headwinds as average revenue per car declined 4% in the quarter. Overall, the
declines in volume and lower average revenue per car drove a 10% reduction in freight revenue. Let's take a closer look
at each of the six business groups.
Ag Products revenue was down 4% on a 3% volume reduction and a 1% decrease in average revenue per car. Grain
volume was down 11% in the third quarter. The strong U.S. dollar and high worldwide inventories reduced grain
exports by 32%. Slightly stronger domestic grain shipments partially offset the export decline. Grain products volume
increased 1% for the quarter. July and August saw the largest domestic soybean yield crush on record, resulting in a
17% increase in soybean meal shipments. Partially offsetting this was a 4% decline in ethanol shipments driven by
strong 2014 comps of higher production and shipments.
Food and refrigerated product volumes were flat for the quarter as strength in import sugar and barley were offset by
declines in frozen meat and potato shipments. Automotive revenue was flat in the third quarter as a 5% increase in
volume was offset by a 5% reduction in average revenue per car. Finished vehicle shipments were up 5% this quarter,
driven by continued strength in consumer demand.
The seasonally adjusted annual rate for North American Automotive sales was 17.8 million vehicles in the third
quarter, up 6% from last year. In Auto-parts, volume grew 5% driven primarily by increased vehicle production.
Chemicals revenue was down 6% for the quarter on a 3% reduction in both volume and average revenue per car. We
continued to see strength in plastic shipments which were up 7% in the third quarter due to stable resin pricing and
strong export volume. However, our volume gains were more than offset by declines in shipments of both fertilizer and
crude oil.
Lower grain commodity prices and market uncertainty resulted in farmers delaying fertilizer purchases. This resulted in
a 10% decline in our fertilizer volume. Crude oil volume, which was down 40% in the quarter, continues to be
impacted by low crude oil prices and unfavorable price spreads.
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 21
Coal revenue declined 18% in the third quarter on a 15% volume decline, and a 4% decrease in average revenue per
car. Southern Powder River basin tonnage was down 12% in the quarter. Low natural gas prices continue to put
downward pressure on coal demand as coal share of electricity generated from 30 to – generation declined from 38% in
the third quarter of last year to 35% this year. Coal inventories which are currently 20 days above the five-year average,
contributed to the sluggish demand. Colorado Utah tonnage was down 32%, driven again by soft domestic demand and
reduced export shipments.
Industrial products revenue was down 16% on a 12% decline in volume and a 4% decrease in average revenue per car
during the quarter. A reduction in shale drilling resulted in a 31% decline in minerals volume, primarily driven by a
36% decrease in frac sand car loadings. Metals volume was down 26% as lower crude oil prices suppressed drilling
related shipments and the strong U.S. dollar drove increased imports. Demand for construction products resulted in a
1% volume increase in the third quarter, driven by continued demand in road and construction projects in our Texas
rock region.
Intermodal revenue was down 11% in the third quarter on a 4% lower volume and a 7% decrease in average revenue
per unit. Domestic Intermodal volume was up 1% in the third quarter. Even though retail sales were down slightly
year-over-year, we still achieved a best ever third quarter of domestic Intermodal volume. International Intermodal
volume was down 9% in the quarter as compared to a strong third quarter of 2014 when cargo owners advanced peak
season shipments in anticipation of port labor strikes. With relatively high retail inventories, some International
Intermodal customers have reduced orders and not all East Coast diversions have migrated back to the West Coast. I
will update you on peak season in just a minute.
To wrap up, let's take a look at our outlook for the rest of the year. In Ag products, although we've had another strong
crop year, low commodity prices and abundant global supply create uncertainty in our volume outlook for grain. In
Food and Refrigerated, we expect continued strength in beer, but we are facing headwinds in other markets from
increased truck availability year over year. We expect automotive sales will remain strong for the rest of the year,
driving growth in finished vehicles and parts shipments. We continue to expect coal demand to remain below year ago
levels due to low natural gas prices, higher than average coal inventories and headwinds in the export coal market. As
always, a key factor in demand will be weather conditions.
Most chemical markets should remain steady for the remainder of the year with strength expected in LPG. We continue
to expect that weak oil prices, reduced production and unfavorable spreads will remain a significant headwind for crude
by rail shipments. In Industrial Products, lower crude oil prices will also continue to challenge our minerals and [ph]
metals (8:02) volume through the rest of 2015. While the housing market is slowly strengthening, the strong dollar and
relatively weak China lumber import market are driving more imports of Canadian lumber to the U.S. We continue to
expect demand for Construction Products to remain strong, particularly in the southern part of our franchise.
Finally, in Intermodal, we continue to see highway conversions and we expect this will be the seventh consecutive year
of record domestic Intermodal volumes. We expect that relatively soft retail sales will cause headwinds in our
International Intermodal volumes. Overall, we will continue to focus on solid core pricing gains, strengthening our
customer value proposition, and developing new business across our diverse franchise.
With that, I will turn it over to Cameron.
Cameron A. Scott
Thank you, Eric, and good morning. Starting with our safety performance, our year-to-date reportable personal injury
rate improved 12% versus 2014 to a record low of 0.92. While we continue to make significant improvement, we won't
be satisfied until we reach our goal of zero incidents, getting every one of our employees home safely at the end of each
day.
With respect to rail equipment incidents or derailments, our reportable rate increased 17% to 3.56, driven by an
increase in yard and industry reportables. While our reportable rate has taken a step back this year, we're confident that
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 21
our strategy aimed at eliminating human factor incidents and hardening our infrastructure will put us back on a path of
long-term improvement.
In public safety, our grade-crossing incident rate increase slightly versus 2014 to 2.25. We continue to focus on driving
improvement by reinforcing public awareness through channels including public safety campaigns and community
partnerships.
Moving on to network performance. Our operating metrics showed a step function improvement in the third quarter
with network velocity reaching levels not achieved since 2013. While weather conditions in the quarter were more
favorable from an operating standpoint, year-over-year volume swings and business mix shifts continued to create a
dynamic operating environment. However, the men and women of Union Pacific proved up to the challenge, diligently
leveraging the strengths of our franchise and serve our customers proudly.
In regards to Service. One of the key metrics we use to track our performance is our Service Delivery Index. The
measure, which gauges how well we are meeting overall customer commitments, improved 8% versus the third quarter
of last year. We also generated improvement in our local service product to customers with a 95.3% industry spot and
pull, which measures the delivery or pulling of a car to or from a customer. But we know there is still more work to do,
and we are working hard every day to further improve service and reduce cost.
Adjusting resources to current demand continued to be a key focus area for us in the third quarter. While we noted back
in July that we had our locomotive fleet close to being right sized, we have made meaningful progress adjusting our
TE&Y work force over the past couple of months. By the end of September, we had around 2,700 TE&Y employees
either furloughed or in alternative work status compared with 1,200 at the end of the second quarter.
In addition to adjusting to lower volumes, our improvement network performance has translated into fewer re-crews,
lessening the resource demands of our network. Overall, our total TE&Y work force was down 10% in September
versus June. Around half of this decrease was driven by fewer employees in the training pipeline.
Our active locomotive fleet is down 140 units from the end of the second quarter. As we currently sit, we still have
some work left to do but our resources at the end of the third quarter were more closely in line with current demand.
While resource alignment has been a key focus throughout the year, we have not lost sight of other initiatives which
also drive productivity. We ran record train lengths in nearly all major categories, remaining agile and adapting our
transportation plan to current demand. We were also able to generate efficiency gains within terminals as productivity
initiatives led to record terminal productivity, even with the 4% decline in the number of cars switched. Growth
capacity investments alongside process improvements have enhanced our ability to generate productivity and have
increased the fluid capabilities of our network.
In addition, our progress in adjusting resources to demand has helped enable gains in asset utilization, including
locomotive productivity. While a mix headwind from running lower coal volumes largely drove the 1% decline versus
the third quarter of 2014, this fleet productivity metric has improved 6% sequentially from second quarter levels.
To wrap up, as we move forward, we expect our safety strategy will yield record results on our way to an incident free
environment. And while we gained significant traction throughout the quarter, we continue making operational
improvements by leveraging the strengths of our diverse franchise to deliver a service product our customers have
come to expect. With our resources now closer in line with demand, we'll continue our focus on other productivity
initiatives to further reduce cost. Ultimately, running a safe, reliable and efficient railroad creates a value for our
customers and increases returns for our shareholders.
With that, I will turn it over to Rob.
Robert M. Knight, Jr.
Thanks, and good morning. Let's start with a recap of our third quarter results. Operating revenue was just under $5.6
billion in the quarter, down 10% versus last year. A decline in volume and lower fuel surcharge revenue along with
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 21
negative business mix more than offset another quarter of solid core pricing. Operating expenses totaled just under $3.4
billion, decreasing 13% when compared to last year. Drivers of this expense decline were significantly lower fuel
expense, along with volume
related reductions and productivity improvements. The net result was a 5% decrease in operating income to $2.2
billion.
Below the line, other income totaled $30 million, up from $20 million in 2014. Interest expense of $157 million was up
9% compared to the previous year, driven by increased debt issuance during the last 12 months. Income tax expense
decreased about 7% to $781 million, driven primarily by reduced pre-tax earnings. Net income decreased 5% versus
last year while the outstanding share balance declined 3% as a result of our continued share repurchase activity. These
results combined to produce quarterly earnings of $1.50 per share, down 2% versus last year.
Now turning to our top line. Freight revenue of $5.2 billion was down 10% versus last year. Volume declined about 6%
and fuel surcharge revenue was down $407 million when compared to 2014. All in, we estimate the net impact of lower
fuel price was a $0.05 headwind to earnings in the third quarter versus last year. And this includes the net impact from
both the fuel surcharges and lower diesel fuel costs. And as we expected on our last earnings call, business mix was a
negative contributor to freight revenue for the third quarter. The primary drivers of this mix shift were significant
declines in frac sand, steel shipments, and bulk grains, partially offset by a decline in International Intermodal volumes.
Looking ahead, business mix will continue to be a headwind to freight revenue for the remainder of the year.
A 3.5% core price increase was a positive contributor to freight revenue in the quarter. Slide 21 provides more detail on
our core pricing trends. While down slightly from the first half levels, core pricing continued at levels that are above
inflation, and reflects the value proposition that we offer in the marketplace. Of the 3.5% this quarter, about 0.5% can
be attributed to the benefit of the legacy business that we renewed earlier this year, and this includes both the 2015 and
2016 legacy contract renewals.
Moving on to the expense side, Slide 22 provides a summary of our compensation and benefits expense, which
decreased 2% versus 2014. The decrease was primarily driven by lower volumes and improved labor efficiencies as we
continued to realign our work force. Labor inflation was about 4% for the third quarter, driven by agreement wage
inflation as well as higher pension and other benefit expense. For the fourth quarter, we expect labor inflation to also be
about 4%.
Looking at our total workforce levels, our employee count was flat when compared to 2014. And excluding our capital
related employees, however, our workforce level declined about 3%, and as Cam just mentioned, we made significant
TE&Y reductions in the third quarter, and we are more closely in line with current demand. For the fourth quarter, we
now expect our total force levels to be down a percent or so when compared with the fourth quarter of 2014.
Turning to the next slide. Fuel expense totaled $484 million, down 45% when compared to 2014. Lower diesel fuel
prices along with an 8% decline in gross ton miles drove the decrease in fuel expense for the quarter. Compared to the
third quarter of last year, our fuel consumption rate increased 1%, driven by negative mix while our average fuel price
declined 40% to $1.81 per gallon.
Moving on to our other expense categories; purchased services and materials expense decreased 9% to $589 million.
The reduction was primarily driven by lower volume related expense and reduced repair costs associated with our
locomotive and car fleets. Depreciation expense was $507 million, up 5% compared to 2014. We still expect
depreciation to increase about 6% for the full year.
Slide 25 summarizes the remaining two expense categories. Equipment and other rents expense totaled $302 million,
which is down 3% when compared to 2014. Lower locomotive lease and volume related expenses were the primary
drivers. Other expenses came in at $205 million, down 15% versus last year. Decreased freight, equipment, and
property damage costs along with a reduction in general expenses were the primary drivers. We now expect other
expense to be close to flat on a full-year basis, excluding any large unusual items.
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 21
Turning now to our operating ratio performance. The third quarter operating ratio came in at a record 60.3%, an
improvement of two points when compared to the third quarter of 2014. The operating ratio did benefit about a point
and a half from the net impact of lower fuel prices in the quarter. Early in the year we challenged the organization to
safely and efficiently right size our resources and reduce costs, and I am pleased with the results that we've been able to
achieve. Ongoing productivity initiatives, along with pricing above inflation, have been key drivers to improving our
overall margins.
Turning now to our cash flow; year-to-date cash from operations increased to just over $5.6 billion, and we invested
around $3.3 billion in cash capital investments through the first three quarters. Taking a look at the balance sheet, we
continue our efforts to rebalance our capital structure while maintaining a strong investment-grade credit rating. Our
adjusted debt balance grew about $1.6 billion through the first three quarters of this year, taking our adjusted debt to
cap ratio to 44.5%, up from 41.3% at year-end 2014. Our adjusted debt to EBITDA has increased from 1.4x at year-end
to 1.6x at September 30 on a trailing 12 month basis. This is consistent with our target ratio of 1.5-plus. Longer-term,
we define that to mean less than two times.
Our profitability and cash generation enable us to continue to fund both our capital program and cash returns to
shareholders. Year to date, we've repurchased more than 28 million shares. Almost half of these shares were
repurchased in the third quarter. Year-to-date spending totaled $2.9 billion. The third quarter alone was up 45% versus
last year to over $1.2 billion. This demonstrates our opportunistic approach in the marketplace, and should not be
considered a new quarterly run rate. Adding our dividend payments and our share repurchases, we return $4.3 billion to
our shareholders through the first three quarters of 2015. This represents roughly a 22% increase over 2014.
While we've made good progress in the third quarter, we do expect to see some difficult year-over-year comparisons as
we close out 2015. In the current demand environment, continued lower volumes versus last year and an even more
challenging business mix will both negatively impact fourth quarter results. And when we compare it to last year, fuel
prices will also continue to have a negative impact on earnings for the fourth quarter. Keep in mind, we did report a
$0.05 positive fuel benefit in the fourth quarter of last year, making the fuel comparison more challenging year over
year.
On the plus side, we will continue to focus on achieving solid core pricing gains and building on the progress that
we've made with our cost reduction and productivity initiatives. And when you add it all up, we will fall short of last
year's fourth quarter and full year earnings per share records.
As for next year, we're still early in the planning process. It looks like we may have opportunities in many of our
business segments. But it also appears that our energy-related volumes will continue to be challenged. Given the
uncertain environment, we're taking a hard look at our capital spending for next year. We haven't finalized our plans, so
it's too early to tell how it will relate to our longer-term guidance of 16% to 17% of revenue, but from an absolute
dollar perspective, we do currently expect that it will be somewhat less than this year's $4.2 billion. And the plan does
include the acquisition of around 200 locomotives as part of the long-term purchase commitment.
Overall, we will remain intently focused on running a safe, cost efficient, and productive operation. And we remain
committed to providing our customers with excellent service and our shareholders with strong financial returns.
So with that, I'll turn it back over to Lance.
Lance M. Fritz
Thanks, Rob. As you've heard from the team, we've made great progress in meeting this year's challenges. Our
operating metrics have improved to more efficient levels and our resources are now more closely in line with demand.
We'll continue our unrelenting focus on operating safely and providing a quality service product for our customers. We
will also continue to grow existing business and to establish new markets. Even so, as Rob said, there are some
question marks as we finish 2015 and head toward next year. One uncertainty, of course, is the extension of the
Positive Train Control deadline. We continue to believe that Congress will do the right thing for our country and our
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 21
customers and will vote to extend the deadline. Beyond that, energy prices, the consumer economy, grain markets, the
strength of the U.S. dollar, all will be key to future demand.
Over the long term, we are well-positioned to safely provide our customers with excellent service while delivering
strong value to our shareholders.
So with that, let's open up the line for your questions.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]
Due to the number of analysts joining us on the call today, we will be limiting everyone to one primary question and
one follow-up question to accommodate as many participants as possible. Thank you.
Our first question is from the line of David Vernon with Bernstein Research. Please go ahead with your question.
<Q - J. David Scott Vernon>: Hey, good morning, and thanks for taking the question. Rob or Eric, could you help us
frame how challenging coal could be next year from a volume outlook? If we were to assume kind of normal demand
patterns, gas prices kind of staying where they are. Are we looking at similar declines as we saw this year, or something
smaller than that?
<A - Eric L. Butler>: As we said, David, coal demand really depends on a couple of major factors. One, the
competitiveness against natural gas, and so what the outlook for natural gas pricing is, and certainly the weather, and
certainly export markets will have an impact on the coal market. At this point, if you look at natural gas futures, there is
no discernible improvement in that natural gas pricing, so you would assume natural gas will remain very competitive
versus coal. I don't think you would project any improvement of coal market share against natural gas pricing, and the
weather is always an open factor.
<Q - J. David Scott Vernon>: But deterioration, would you expect, are there things that you know about your
retirements on your fleet or new-builds anywhere on your network that would give you some cause for saying that there
is going to be a material deterioration assuming the competitiveness remains unchanged?
<A - Eric L. Butler>: So again, the key driver is kind of the competitiveness of coal. I think you should also look at
the current inventories. The inventories as we mentioned are about 20 days above historical five-year average levels,
they're actually about 30 days above last year third quarter levels, so you could assume that there would be some desire
of utilities to manage those inventories down to a more normal level.
<Q - J. David Scott Vernon>: Okay. Great. And then maybe just one quick follow-up thing on the pricing. Obviously
we heard a little bit from one of your interchange partners down in the South, Central South, making some concessions
on rates to maybe incentivize some coal burn. How do you guys think about that? Are you guys changing your thinking
about that given the changing competitiveness right now with coal and natural gas?
<A - Eric L. Butler>: We don't, as you know, we don't talk about specific customer issues or specific commercial
issues with customers. Our strategy has not changed. We think we have a strong value proposition, we're going to price
to the value proposition to generate a return for our company. Our strategy has not changed.
<Q - J. David Scott Vernon>: Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from the line of Ken Hoexter with Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead with your question.
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 21
<Q - Kenneth Scott Hoexter>: Great, good morning. Hey, Lance and team, great job on the operating ratio. But now
that you're kind of at this 60 level, can you maybe talk a little bit about what projects you still have that can improve?
Obviously we saw a tremendous improvement in the velocity during the quarter. Is that something that you still see can
return to even a couple year ago levels, and there's more room to get that into the 50s and maybe just talk about what
projects you have underway that can keep improving that into the next few years?
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Sure, Ken. Before I turn it over to Cameron for a little more Technicolor. Like we've answered
historically, there are just almost limitless opportunity for us to continue to improve business. What you saw in the
quarter, and what we've of reported for an average quarterly fluidity reflected in velocity has been accelerating through
the quarter. So as we are stepping into the fourth quarter, we feel pretty bullish about the ability to continue to make
gains. And the other thing to think about from a service perspective is while the fluidity of the network at this moment
in time looks like it has at any previous period from the standpoint of very good, there are still opportunities in specific
service products that we can continue to make strides on. So Cameron, I'll give it to you to talk a little bit more
specifically about projects for productivity.
<A - Cameron A. Scott>: We continue to see opportunities in a number of different areas including variable cost
control, train length growth, terminal productivity, C-rate or fuel efficiency, and engineering and mechanical efficiency
initiatives to help squeeze out as much productivity as possible. And we are gaining traction in all of these areas, as
Rob mentioned.
<Q - Kenneth Scott Hoexter>: Great, appreciate that insight. If I could just have a quick follow up on the peer pricing,
you mentioned that it decelerated to 3.5% from 4%. Is that due to more truck competition? I don't know, Eric, if you
mentioned it, I don't know if they're pricing contracts down, or what's driving that. But maybe you can delve into that a
little bit?
<A - Robert M. Knight, Jr.>: Ken, this is Rob. Let me jump on that. A couple of points. One, you know how we
calculate price at Union Pacific and I'm very proud of it. And that is we only count what actually moves. So when we
calculate the yield from price, so the point being volume has an impact, clearly, on our reported price. The other thing I
would say is our attitude and our focus has not changed at all in terms of our commitment and understanding to drive
price. It's a key contributor to what we've been able to achieve to this point, and it will be a key contributor as we move
forward continuing to get that solid core pricing. And I wouldn't read too much, frankly, into the change from the
second quarter to the third quarter because there's volume issues, there's the legacy that we called out, and there's some
round – you know we always round the numbers in terms of what we report here, so there is not as big as a gap, if you
will from the second to third as you might otherwise think. So again, our commitment and our focus on pricing is
unchanged.
<Q - Kenneth Scott Hoexter>: Appreciate the time and insight. Thanks, guys.
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Thanks, Ken.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from the line of Jason Seidl with Cowen & Co. Please go ahead with your questions.
<Q - Jason H. Seidl>: Thank you, and good morning, everyone. You guys talked a little bit about some of the East
coast business not flowing back to, not all of it at least, flowing back to the West Coast ports. Do you think it's now
permanently based in the East now? Do you think people changed their supply chains?
<A - Eric L. Butler>: This is Eric, Jason. No, we do not. Frankly as said in last quarter and I think the previous
quarter, we do think that ultimately the cheapest, best, fastest supply chain will win, and that still is West Coast ports.
There's still probably a couple, three percentage points of share that migrated over to the East Coast ports during the
port strike that has not migrated back. We think some of that is just some short-term risk management, some hedging
for the market and retail inventories. But we fully expect that the shortest, quickest, most economic supply chain wins
in the end, and that's the West Coast.
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 21
<Q - Jason H. Seidl>: Okay. That's great color. And, Rob, just a quick question on pricing. I think you mentioned that
about half of a point was due to the legacy mix pull forward that you had. So as we start looking out to 2016, should we
start just basing our assumptions on about 3% core pricing?
<A - Robert M. Knight, Jr.>: Nice try.
<Q - Jason H. Seidl>: You can't blame a guy.
<A - Robert M. Knight, Jr.>: No, I get it. I mean clearly we are saying that you can assume that the legacy is not
going to continue. But in terms of what happens underneath or beyond legacy we haven't given it a precise number of
guidance other than our commitment to core real – core pricing gains above inflation. And we're not changing our
attitude or our focus there. What the number actually ends up being, you know, stay tuned.
<Q - Jason H. Seidl>: Sounds good. Guys, I appreciate the time as always.
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Tom Wadewitz with UBS. Please proceed with the questions.
<Q - Thomas Wadewitz>: Yes, good morning. You have been, obviously, been asked a couple of questions on price,
and, you know, I guess as I understand it, you're saying you are not changing your approach, but the market can
change. And so I'm wondering whether you perceive that what we heard about from KSU and presumably, another
competitor taking the rate down on coal. Do you think that the market is changing in terms of more broadly than that?
Or would you say, look, there are, targeted actions that you really shouldn't read into broadly. Because I think you're
clear on what you're doing, but the market, you know, matters as well. I'm just wondering what you think on whether
the market is really going to change are not?
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Tom, this is Lance. Historically we've always focused on providing an excellent product and
then charging for the value that that product represents to our customer base. We've faced markets that are very
difficult, different headwinds, and we've faced very robust markets, and that philosophy doesn't change. So we are in a
very competitive business, we compete aggressively for the business that we enjoy, and at the same time, we expect to
receive a price that represents the value that we provide, and it has to be reinvestable. All of that is real, and all that
continues to be real as we look into the future.
<Q - Thomas Wadewitz>: Is it fair, I mean, I guess if we looking at you versus the market or a competitor, however
you want to characterize that, you know over the last several years it's probably you've been a little bit willing to give
up some volume, I think there were some contracts that moved away from you in coal in 20 – I think 2013 and 2014.
And so you'd say, well that's an example of being firm on price and being willing to give up a little volume. Is that, is it
fair to say that, you know, that's been your behavior and that willingness to give up a little volume to keep prices, is
that the way we should view you're saying, you know, we're continuing with the same thing?
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Tom, I wouldn't change my answer to you at all. We expect to be paid for the value that we
represent, and we expect to be able to reinvest in our business.
<Q - Thomas Wadewitz>: Right. Okay. Thanks for the time.
Operator
Our next question is coming from the line of Rob Salmon with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead with your question.
<Q - Robert H. Salmon>: Yeah, thanks. To piggyback off of Ken's earlier question on the productivity front. It was
very impressive that you guys were able to pretty much extend train length across the network in an environment where
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 21
volumes were down about 6%. Can you give us a sense of what sort of siding constraints you guys have across the
network and the opportunity to expand that further?
<A - Cameron A. Scott>: Most of the train sizes you saw there equates to about 6,000 feet, and almost 90% of our
network is 7,200 feet capable. So we really don't have any siding constraints, and it's up to us to maximize train length
and meet customer commitments. So we have a lot of opportunity in that category going forward.
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: You know, I would add, you know, it's very dependent on the lanes around the network. We
still do have targeted capital investment that's oriented towards siding length extensions and being able to increase
maximum train length on a particular route, over and above what you see as average train lengths here. So there are
always, or right now there are opportunities for us to continue to invest targeted capital to make that happen. But we're
a far way away from being at our average train length threatening our current siding length.
<Q - Robert H. Salmon>: Thanks. I really appreciate that color. With regard to PTC, Lance, you had briefly alluded to
it in the prepared comments. Can you give us a sense of what the impact across the network would be if Congress
doesn't extend it, and any lessons that you learned from the massive uptick in volume we saw in 2014 that you could
deploy? Because to me, and reading the announcements, the press release that you guys had put out on the topic, it
would be – it would impact a substantial amount of the network.
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Yes, so, Rob, what we've announced, what we've said that we would do if there's not an
extension. And again, I am very optimistic that Congress will be prudent and will pass an extension before we have to
take any action. But what we've said is around Thanksgiving, in order to remove TIH from our railroad, we would have
to start imposing an embargo. And that would be impactful. That means we'd have to stop allowing interchange product
on to us of those commodities as well as start working with customers to try to figure out a way for them to ship it in
alternative lines. Also, we said as we approach the end of the year we would start working with our Amtrak as well as
the commuter agencies that we host to stop passenger traffic.
Both of them would be very bad for the U.S. economy and for commuters. The TIH includes commodities like chlorine
that's used to clean drinking water. It includes products that go into fertilizer and other manufacturing processes. So
that would all have an impact on the U.S. economy. And then you can imagine in a place like Chicago, if the commuter
lines were to stop running January 1, what commutes would be like for the 300,000 people a day that rely on those
commuter lines?
<Q - Robert H. Salmon>: Thanks so much for the time.
Operator
Our next question is coming from the line of Tom Kim with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead with your question.
<Q - Tom Kim>: Hi, good morning, guys. Nice quarter. With regard to the cost side, obviously we're seeing them
come down year-on-year, but also importantly sequentially. I'm trying to get a sense of like the pace of the declines we
should be anticipating for the fourth quarter. Do you think the run rate we've seen in Q3, is it a reasonable Q on Q?
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Rob?
<A - Robert M. Knight, Jr.>: Yes. Tom, I wouldn't take the run rate, because, you know, we're satisfied that we've
made great progress, but that was a pretty steep successful decline from the second quarter which we are very proud of.
And all I would say to you is, we're going to control the things that we can control. And as Cam has mentioned you
know, we've got continuing opportunities. While we've made great progress right sizing and realigning the
organization, we're not done yet. We're going to continue to take initiatives to squeeze that out, and be as effective as
we possibly can. So, the run rate probably will be different, but the success of our continuing to be realigned and look
for every opportunity we can to further that productivity initiative will continue.
<Q - Tom Kim>: Okay, that's helpful, thank you. And then, just wanted [audio gap] (41:01 – 41:05) and that's that
truckers are increasingly competitive with the rails, and there's a comment suggesting that with pricing down for the
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 21
TLs that there's potentially, you know, conceding less share. Obviously, that's more of a threat on Intermodal, but I'm
just wondering with regard to the rest of your book-of-business, how much could you sort of size up would be
potentially at risk of diversion to trucking? My sense is that it would be relatively limited, but I would just love to hear
your thoughts on that.
<A - Eric L. Butler>: Yeah, I think if you look at what is going on currently in the trucking environment, the lower
fuel cost is allowing trucks to be more competitive vis-a-vis rail just by virtue of that fact. Long-term, trucks still have
the same systemic long-term issues that they've always had in terms of driver shortages; some of the productivity
headwinds that they had with some of the CSA regulations, the road congestion, et cetera. So we are still very confident
of our ability to drive truck conversions, which we demonstrated, even in the third quarter, in our Intermodal business.
Certainly trucks are a great competitor, and there's some competitive impact that we always are cognizant of, but we
are still positive about the position that we are in as a rail in driving conversions from truck to rail.
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: And case in point, you grew domestic Intermodal in the third quarter by 1%.
<A - Eric L. Butler>: Right.
<Q - Tom Kim>: Outside of Intermodal, is it much of a threat or something that we should be thinking about?
<A - Eric L. Butler>: Trucks are always a competitor. We feel very good about our value proposition and our ability
to compete.
<Q - Tom Kim>: Thanks very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Scott Group with Wolfe Research. Please go ahead with your
questions.
<Q - Scott H. Group>: Hey, thanks. Good morning, guys.
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Good morning.
<Q - Scott H. Group>: So, Rob, wanted to just follow-up your comment about head count in the fourth quarter being
down about 1%? That implies a slight sequential increase from the third quarter average even though you ended the
third quarter a lot lower than the average? I guess I'm not sure I follow the down 1%. Are you adding head count back
in the fourth quarter?
<A - Robert M. Knight, Jr.>: No. Scott, just kind of take you back. Remember we had previously guided that we
thought we would finish the year flattish with 2014's – I think it was roughly 48,000 – number. And what we're saying
now given the confidence we have and the progress we've made to date, is we expect to end the year with the number
being down a percent or so. So I think compared to where we are now, it's flattish. But of course volume and other
initiatives will dictate exactly where that number lands. But that's the math.
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Yes, our job going forward, Scott, is – Cameron continues to stay focused on getting the house
in order from an operating craft head count. We're also in the process of getting our house in order on a non-agreement
perspective. We talked about that in an announcement late in the third quarter. And we've got an opportunity in capital
head count, particularly in light of Rob's discussion that capital is likely to be down next year. As we exit this year
we've got an opportunity to make adjustments there.
<Q - Scott H. Group>: Okay. And then, Rob, you said a couple times I think 4% labor inflation. What does the next
year look like?
<A - Robert M. Knight, Jr.>: We haven't finished our planning for next year, Scott, on a number of initiatives. But I
think it's safe to say that the labor inflation will be lower than it was this year. Remember, this year we had the double
wage, we had other issues that pushed the labor inflation full year up closer to – we had 5%, 6% in the first half of the
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 21
year. So I think I'm confident to say it's going to be lower than that. Exactly where that number lands at this point in
time, again, stay tuned.
<Q - Scott H. Group>: Okay. Great. And then last just quick thing; on the CapEx, is your comment that it's going to
come down but we may not be able to get it down all the way to 16% of revenue? Or a lot's on the table, we could get it
even lower than 16%, we just don't know.
<A - Robert M. Knight, Jr.>: Yeah. What I'm saying there is the absolute number we would expect to come down,
but it may not be in that 16% to 17% guidance range yet. Because remember this year, because of the fall off in
revenue driven largely by the fall off in the fuel surcharge revenue. And as you know, and others know, we don't set
our capital plan based on revenue, it's just kind of a guiding marker that we provide to you. So it's possible that it won't
quite make it all the way down to that 16% to 17% depending on how the revenue number looks as we work through
our planning process. And that's what I'm suggesting.
<Q - Scott H. Group>: Okay. Great. Thank you, guys.
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Allison Landry with Credit Suisse Group. Please go ahead with your
questions.
<Q - Allison M. Landry>: Good morning. So, I know that there's been a lot of questions on price, but thinking about
core price above inflation, I was wondering if you could give us a sense of what overall rail inflation is currently
running at?
<A - Robert M. Knight, Jr.>: Allison, this is Rob. I mean this year overall inflation, again, largely driven by that
discussion I just had with the labor line, is probably in the three-ish, maybe slightly higher than 3% full year this year.
Again, Allison, as you know, we don't set – again that's another marker similar to my discussion on capital. We don't
set our pricing based on any one particular period's inflation expectation. That's just a marker that we expect to
continue to achieve above. That can be lumpy from one quarter to the next, or one period to the next. But to answer
your question, inflation overall was 3-plus-ish this year.
<Q - Allison M. Landry>: Okay, that's helpful. And then thinking about Intermodal, how much of the decline in the
segment stems from your main competitor taking some share back as its network recovers? And do you expect a further
bleed in the fourth quarter given that BN has opened up its northern region and added some new expedited Intermodal
service from Chicago to the PNW?
<A - Eric L. Butler>: So, Allison, as we mentioned, the decline in our Intermodal space was really in the International
Intermodal space, and there's really a number of different dynamics that are going on in that. One is not the complete
re-migration, if you will, from East Coast to West Coast so that is progressing. One is, as you know, in the liner
steamship business there's a number of different dynamics going on there with the different alliances and different
entities deciding what lanes they're going to put their ships in. And certainly kind of the suggested softness in China
and other parts of the Asian rim are all having an impact on that. So those are really the drivers.
In terms of our domestic Intermodal franchise, as we mentioned, we grew. This will be the seventh consecutive year of
record volumes. We feel great about our franchise, the position of our franchise and the strength of our franchise.
<Q - Allison M. Landry>: Okay, so just to be clear on your answer, BN has not taken any of the share back that you
may have gained last year. Or that's just not a significant factor?
<A - Eric L. Butler>: So, as we talked at earlier earnings releases, we did have, I think Rob said a 1% to 2% share
benefit last year from business with the difficulties at our competitors. We fully expected that to migrate back. And
those were in a couple of areas. Those were in Intermodal, those were in grain, those were in coal. And we have, and
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 21
are seeing those migrate back. And that was aligned with our expectations.
<Q - Allison M. Landry>: Okay. Great. Thank you very much.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Justin Long with Stephens. Please proceed with your question.
<Q - Justin Long>: Thanks, and good morning.
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Good morning.
<Q - Justin Long>: Maybe to just follow-up on Intermodal again. I know right now
you're facing headwinds from tough International comps. There's uncertainty in the retail space. So I was just
wondering, bigger picture, when do you feel this business can get back to more of a GDP or a GDP-plus growth
environment versus the declines we've seen year-to-date.
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Eric, let me take a stab at that. So the longer-term, we feel very strong, very bullish on the
Intermodal product in general. That in the long run is going to be driven in large part by U.S. consumers and
consuming both International product as well as domestic product. It's also predicated on our ability to have a service
product that can penetrate against a truck. And all of those secular dynamics are set up positively for the long run.
In terms of dislocations that are happening in the short term, you know, it's hard to time things out. It is very dependent
on what happens in the U.S. economy, what the jobs picture looks like, what the earnings picture for consumers look
like, what the U.S. dollar is doing. Absent all that, we're focused on controlling what we can control, which is an
excellent service product. We've got the best franchise from a domestic and International Intermodal perspective in the
U.S. And that will serve as well over the long run.
<Q - Justin Long>: Okay, great. And maybe to just follow-up on that. Looking at your Intermodal business today, I
know it varies by lane, but what's the average discount for Intermodal versus truck in your network today? And
longer-term, where do you think that percentage could go without causing a significant slowdown in Intermodal
volume growth?
<A - Eric L. Butler>: We've said historically, 15% / 20% as a rough rule of thumb. It would be part of our core
strategy, of course, to minimize that as we increased our value proposition.
<Q - Justin Long>: Okay. Great. I'll leave it at that. Thanks for the time.
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Yes, thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from line of Alex Vecchio with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with your questions.
<Q - Alexander Vecchio>: Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. So you guys have obviously made a
lot of progress on aligning the resources in light of the softer volumes. And I know the volume outlook is uncertain in a
lot of areas right now, and it's tough to actually point to where – but what might drive an acceleration. But should
volumes actually start beginning to surprise to the upside in 2016 for whatever reason, how do we think about your
ability to kind of leverage the resources you have right now? And do you feel like there's a lot of operating leverage in
the business in where your resources are currently, or would you anticipate you'd have to kind of add back pretty
aggressively. I know it kind of depends on what the volumes actually translate. But how do we just sort of think about
the operating leverage in the model if volumes actually do surprise to the upside?
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 21
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Alex, we would welcome nothing more than a surprise on the upside in terms of volume next
year. And we are well positioned to be able to absorb that into the existing network. Cameron has got adequate
locomotives and crews ready all around the network to be able to handle an uptick. The fluidity of the network would
be able to absorb it rapidly. He and the operating team have done a great job in terms of getting the terminal and yard
productivity up, and we would be able to bring in cars readily into that environment, and handle it fluidly. And between
Eric and Cameron and the rest of the team, they've done a stupendous job on stabilizing our train plan and making sure
that it's robust enough to be able to handle some incremental growth. So that would have significant leverage for us,
and we'd welcome it.
<Q - Alexander Vecchio>: Okay, that make sense. And then just my second question here. You suggested that there
were some headwinds in the fourth quarter. And that earnings per share would probably be down on a year-over-year
basis. Can you help us think directionally relative to the kind of 2% decline that you saw in the third quarter? Can we
expect another similar low single-digit decline in the fourth quarter, or probably a bit of a worse year-over-year move
there, given some of the puts and takes?
<A - Robert M. Knight, Jr.>: Alex. This is Rob. What I'm calling out there. I mean we'll see how the world actually
plays out in terms of volume. But as we look at this point, without giving precise earnings guidance, it does look like
we're going to have a bigger headwind in the fourth quarter on mix year over year. And the reason for that is last year's
mix actually was quite favorable. And if you look at the business, we were running sand fairly strong, coal was
relatively strong, Ag was a pretty positive mix player, and those are things that we just don't see repeating in the fourth
quarter.
In addition, as I called out, we see a headwind year over year in fuel because last year's fourth quarter we got the
benefit of about a nickel of the timing of fuel in the fourth quarter last year, which we don't see that repeating again this
year. So I am calling out that year over year, it does look to us like the fourth quarter does have some bigger challenges
than frankly the third quarter did.
<Q - Alexander Vecchio>: Okay, that makes sense. Thanks very much for the time.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Wetherbee with Citigroup. Please proceed with your question.
<Q - Chris Wetherbee>: Hey, thanks. Good morning. I wanted talk a little bit about the coal network and the outlook
for next year. Obviously still some challenges, particularly market share relative to natural gas. When you think about
the network, one of your Eastern competitors has started to make some changes in terms of the network that's a little bit
more structural in nature. I guess I'm just curious from your perspective how you think about that as you look out to
2016 and maybe beyond. Given the coal outlook, are there things that need to be done there, or things that you could do
to potentially improve that – the value proposition there?
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Chris, before I hand it over to Cameron for a little more technicolor, the thing to note about our
coal network is it's largely run on a shared network. So there are -- we have made fundamental adjustments in resources
that reflect coal being down. You see that in our adjustments to the TE&Y craft, to locomotives, it's also embedded in
some of the cars that we've stored, and we're constantly looking at our assets as they're currently deployed to make sure
they fit the demand profile for a commodity like coal.
Cameron?
<A - Cameron A. Scott>: You're exactly right, Lance. Our coal network is truly built out. So for us, it's really more of
how we manage the fungible assets around locomotives and crews, and we'll continue to do that. Having said that, we'll
continue to study the assets around our coal network and react appropriately.
<Q - Chris Wetherbee>: Okay. That's helpful color. I appreciate it. And then, Rob, just coming back to you on the
buyback just for second. You know, obviously you talked about it not being a run rate in the third quarter, and that
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 21
makes complete sense to me. I guess if you could help us maybe think about how you might be opportunistic going
forward; I guess I just want to get a maybe a rough sense of maybe how you view that proposition as you think about,
you know, this quarter and next in terms of the buyback and the run rate we should be expecting.
<A - Robert M. Knight, Jr.>: Yeah, I mean Chris, you probably could write my answer here what I'm going to say,
without giving precise guidance in terms of what we're going to buy back, because we don't do that. We certainly value
and understand the value of a continued buyback program, and we've kind of walked our talk there. And as we've
always said, we will be opportunistic in the marketplace based on factors like the price of the stock. So all those are
factors in terms of how it will look as we play out into the next several quarters. We're going to continue to take the
same mindset, if you will, in terms of how we approach the opportunity and approach how many shares we actually do
buy back.
<Q - Chris Wetherbee>: Okay, that makes sense. Thanks for much guys. Appreciate it.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Bascome Majors with Susquehanna. Please proceed with your questions.
<Q - Bascome Majors>: Yeah, good morning, guys. I want ask another one on coal here. How much of the mid-teens
volume decline that you're tracking toward for this year would you attribute to the year-over-year decline in natural gas
prices?
<A - Eric L. Butler>: Bascome, this is Eric. You know, it varies. I would say the vast majority of the decline is in
some way or the other attributable to natural gas prices. As you know, there are different ISO regions that we operate
in, and the impact of natural gas is different in those regions. But I would say the vast majority is attributable at the end
of the day to the competitiveness of coal with natural gas, with one other factor, and that's been our export coal market,
just the worldwide export coal prices. That's also a factor.
<Q - Bascome Majors>: Understood. I appreciate that. And just to follow-up. I know there's a lot of significant
moving parts here, but say natural gas prices are flat next year so you don't have that magnitude of a year-over-year
headwind on that front and winter is normal, just roughly speaking, what kind of 2016 coal volume outcome are we
looking at here? Is this a situation where you could be down double-digits again, or is kind of mid-single digits more of
what you guys are planning for?
<A - Eric L. Butler>: Hey, Bascome, as I mentioned earlier, one of the other factors that is a factor is the current level
of coal inventories that at the end of the third quarter, they are 30 days higher than where they were last year and 20
days higher than the five-year average. So I would say it's a fair expectation to assume utilities would work those down,
not only maybe even to the averages but below the averages if they're trying to be in inventory management mode.
<Q - Bascome Majors>: Understood. I appreciate the time this morning. Thank you.
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Brandon Oglenski with Barclays. Please go ahead with your question.
<Q - Brandon Robert Oglenski>: Yeah, good morning everyone. And congrats on a good quarter here. I know cutting
budgets can be pretty difficult. So Lance, by my calculations it's been about 12 minutes since you got the question on
pricing. So I'm going to come back to it because I honestly think that's probably the biggest concern for your
shareholders right now. But I just want to ask a more general question about the industry right now because it's kind of
two parts here. If you look across the industrial landscape, we are definitely seeing deflationary pressure for a lot of
your companies. Energy CapEx is likely to be down again next year, and obviously commodity prices are a lot lower.
So there is just less value to extract from that supply chain when you think about it holistic. But then secondly, the
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 16 of 21
industry obviously has an issue here with PTC. We're late relative to a law that was probably poorly written. But
nonetheless, in this environment where your customers are facing a lot of challenges and we do have regulatory issues,
how do we balance the reinvestment, the service, and the price equation such that we try to keep all the constituents
happy?
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: That's an excellent question, Brandon. One that we are constantly working on. Our primary
focus, first and foremost, is a robust, reliable, excellent service product. And in that context, it's making that service
product better than the alternatives. That puts us in a position to be able to secure a price premium. And that represents
the value of that service product. So long as we are in that position, then we can handle the rest of the pressure points
appropriately. And when it comes to regulation, our best defense in a regulatory environment is happy customers, and
customers that are getting an excellent service product. That won't stop the conflict around the pricing discussions that
we have. It won't stop regulators from wanting to find ways to regulate us. But it will stop some of the pressure, and
that's our biggest defense, the one we focus on most.
<Q - Brandon Robert Oglenski>: Well, I appreciate that. And is there a risk here though that if we face further
declines, which it feels like we are in the fourth quarter, that this whole process just takes a little bit slower pace in
terms of railroad margin improvement, return improvement, just understanding that we have a lot of other pressures
across the industrial landscape?
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: We are keenly focused on making sure we generate a really attractive return on our invested
capital. Embedded in that is trying to make sure we continue to improve our margins. I think we've outlined today that
there are ample opportunities to continue to make that happen. One of them is price, but it's only one of the
mechanisms. And that's what we're focused on.
<Q - Brandon Robert Oglenski>: Appreciate it.
Operator
Our next question is from the line of Cherilyn Radbourne with TD Securities. Please proceed with your questions.
<Q - Cherilyn Radbourne>: Thanks very much, and good morning. So you've cited high retail inventory levels as a
volume impediment for the last couple of quarters. And I'm just curious how far along you think we are in drawing
down those inventories and putting the inventory correction behind us?
<A - Eric L. Butler>: Yeah. We've actually only mentioned it this quarter, a little bit last quarter. So it really depends
on the consumer. Consumer confidence does appear to be strong. There does appear to be a trend where consumers are
paying down debt and spending on non-product things like data, Internet, healthcare services, et cetera. I do think if
you talk to a lot of the BCOs and the retailers, they do have an expectation that with consumer confidence remaining
strong, there should be a pick-up during the holiday season in sales. But time will determine whether or not that
happens.
<Q - Cherilyn Radbourne>: Okay, that's helpful. And then just a very quick one on cost. You called out $50 million
of inefficiencies last quarter, which was down from $100 million in the first quarter. And wondering what fell in the
third quarter, if anything.
<A - Robert M. Knight, Jr.>: Cherilyn, this is Rob. Yeah, we made good progress on that. And remember that marker
that I was sharing with you in the first and second quarter was against the previous year. And we feel very good about
as Cam walked through, we feel very good about the third quarter progress we made in better aligning our resources.
Having said that, we're not done. I mean that's – last year wasn't the end of the gain. So we still see opportunities for us
to continue to squeeze out productivity initiatives on multiple fronts, and we're going to continue to do that. But in
answer to your direct question of compared to what I showed you last quarter on the year-over-year, we made very
good progress in taking out those inefficiencies that we showed you in the second quarter.
<Q - Cherilyn Radbourne>: Okay. Thank you. That's my two.
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 17 of 21
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Thank you, Cherilyn.
Operator
Our next question is coming from the line of John Barnes with RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead with your
question.
<Q - John Barnes>: Hey. Thank you. In looking at a couple of the kind of carload outlooks on the positive side that
you provided, I think the one that is starting to get a little bit of attention is the auto side. And I know right now, auto
continues to be very strong, but with a SAAR that is at the historical kind of upper end of the range. Any concern there
that if you see a bit of a correction and maybe a more normalized level of production, and especially given that KSU
mentioned you've got retooling going on at a couple of Mexican facilities for GM and Chrysler. Is there any concern
that you start to see maybe some of that growth in the auto sector slack off as we go into the new year?
<A - Eric L. Butler>: Yes, John. I think it's a great question. Certainly as you mentioned, the SAARs rate is kind of at
a barn burner rate. The amount of debt associated with auto loans is at, I think, a historic high rate. I think the auto
manufacturers would still be pretty bullish because of the features that they think they are providing to the consumer
and the average age of automobiles out there. But the sales rate is at a high number. And so that by definition would
indicate a little caution and concern.
We don't have too much concern about model changeovers. There's always model changeovers. We see that year in,
year out. We have the benefit of a very broad, diverse autos franchise, and somewhere there's always that happening.
So we don't see that as too big an issue. But certainly, the sales rate, the amount of debt associated with sales, you could
say is something to watch out for.
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Hey, John. Regardless of what SAAR is, what we really are pleased with is the UP Automotive
franchise. It's outstanding. It gives us great access to Mexico if products produced in Mexico gives us great access to
the ports of products produced overseas and imported. And we have an excellent distribution system for finished
vehicles in the Western United States. We're in a very good place when it comes to the Automotive franchise.
<Q - John Barnes>: Yeah. No doubt. I'm glad to see you taking advantage of that now. I just, you know, with a couple
of the other pressure points out there and auto having been kind of one of the bright spots, I always get a little nervous
about any time you see a trend line maybe begin to return to normalization. That's just the reason for the question.
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Sure.
<Q - John Barnes>: One follow-up on the buyback. Rob, you talked about opportunistic. And I'm just kind of curious,
as you've done buybacks over time, have you ever gone back and done a look at the success of your buyback program
as maybe a program done a little bit more ratable per quarter, a little bit kind of more consistent in terms of the absolute
dollars spent or the absolute shares bought back versus maybe timing it a little bit and being more opportunistic? And
have you ever looked at that, and does that guide you at all in terms of how you approach your buyback effort?
<A - Robert M. Knight, Jr.>: John, this probably won't shock you, but we look at it every day, and feel very
comfortable that what we have done to date works for us. And we're not changing our approach or how we look at it.
But I understand the point of your question, but rest assured, we look at what's the right way to deal with this. And
we're confident that we're doing the right thing.
<Q - John Barnes>: Very good. All right. Thanks for your time today.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Troy with Nomura. Please go ahead with your questions.
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 18 of 21
<Q - Matt Troy>: Thank you. It's just a housekeeping question. I noticed in your commentary about expenses,
specifically on comp and benefits, you did not reference incentive comp accrual. The other railroads it's been a tailwind
to the tune of $0.02 to $0.06 per quarter. I'm just trying to think about forward modeling in fourth quarter. Was there a
positive impact that you just didn't call out? Or is there potentially a larger true-up that we'd expect to see in the fourth
quarter as we round the corner into year-end?
<A - Robert M. Knight, Jr.>: Matt, this is Rob. Yes, I don't see any – I'm not calling out that there would be any
change in terms of the direction that we've been. We haven't changed our approach and so I don't anticipate there being
any big swing in that.
<Q - Matt Troy>: Okay. Thank you for that. And then just the second question would be on coal longer term,
obviously the Eastern rails have had to, are, and will have to continue to live under the threat of environmental
regulations, which, you know, basically call into question the viability of some of their sourcing basins as well as their
customers. You know, some of the push back we get from investors on Union Pacific is, hey, those guys are going to
have to live through it through the next five years.
It's a long time ahead of us, but just want to get a sense. Have you, at a very high-level, looked at whether it's plants
being de-commissioned, shutting down, or new gas-fired turbines coming on line within your system, what potentially
just could be vulnerable of your existing business as we look out over, let's call it a three year to five-year basis in
terms of just sourcing switches or just the viability of certain customers? Thanks.
<A - Eric L. Butler>: Yes, Matt, this is Eric. We look at that in-depth continuously as part of our strategic and tactical
analysis of our markets. You know, I would say that at a high level, coal continues to represent on going forward
probably a necessary minimum third of electrical generation in the U.S. Short of some new technology, I'll call it Star
Trek technology just for shorthand purposes, coal of necessity is going to be a part of the electrical generation of this
country for the foreseeable future. And so I think you could perhaps see coal get to a minimum of call it a 30% market
share, but short of some really new generational technology, I think right now for the forseeable future, that's probably
the minimum that it will be.
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Matt, this is Lance. I want to provide a little editorial comment as well. I think the United
States is blessed with the coal reserves that we are, and our ability to generate electricity with coal relatively cleanly.
And it's never been as clean as it is today. It would be a mistake from the U.S. economy perspective, our
competitiveness globally, to continue to regulate that out artificially. I think we have to work on continuous
improvement with the emissions from coal-fueled generation, but it would be a mistake to artificially retard that too
much.
<Q - Matt Troy>: Understood. Thanks for the detail, everyone.
Operator
The next question is from the line of Cleo Zagrean with Macquarie. Please go ahead with your question.
<Q - Cleo Zagrean>: Good morning, and thank you for your time. My first question also on price. Against very strong
yield ex-fuel this quarter the relative weakness in Automotive and Intermodal, could you please comment on the drivers
there, whether it is mainly mix or competitive dynamics, and how you expect them to play out into next year? And
specifically, do you expect domestic Intermodal to grow more strongly than International with potentially positive
impact on price? Thank you.
<A - Eric L. Butler>: Hey, Cleo, the numbers that you see in Autos and Intermodal from kind of an arc yield
standpoint is really hindered by the fuel flow surcharge reduction. That's more than 100% of that impact.
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: And then her second question was Mexico versus International on Intermodal?
<Q - Cleo Zagrean>: No, no, just the [indiscernible] (73:09) I simply added back an estimated 4%, 5% fuel impact to
each of the price per ton mile numbers that we see there. And I appreciate that fuel impact would be different across
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 19 of 21
[ph] fade (73:23) categories. But – so maybe then you could comment. Are we missing something by seeing Auto and
Intermodal as weakest in terms of yield per mile year-on-year? And then my second question was whether domestic
should grow faster, domestic overall than International next year, and thus give some help to pricing overall from a mix
perspective? Thank you.
<A - Robert M. Knight, Jr.>: Cleo, this is Rob. Let me take that first question. I would caution you not to just use
straight line numbers on there, because I think the piece – to answer your question, what are you missing? I think what
you're missing in that analysis is mix. Mix has an impact within each of the commodity groups in terms of what ends
up being reported as average revenue per car on top of each of their individual impacts from the fuel surcharge. So I
would just caution you that there are differences within each commodity group.
<A - Eric L. Butler>: Yeah. And as you know, we're not going to give guidance in terms of pricing in the future. We
do think that the domestic Intermodal market should continue to have strong pricing opportunities in 2000 – and as we
go into the future.
<Q - Cleo Zagrean>: Okay. But faster or slower than International with all the noise we had this year?
<A - Eric L. Butler>: You know, there is a lot of input – a lot of ins and outs that happen. There are a lot of dynamics,
as you know, going on in the International Intermodal market that are dynamics being driven by other countries and
steamship liner carriers. We feel good about our value proposition, we feel very good about our Domestic Intermodal
franchise and our ability to get pricing in.
<Q - Cleo Zagrean>: Okay. Appreciate that. And the second question relates to CapEx. Can you please remind us of
the share that you consider discretionary versus maintenance or required additions given the shift in the geography of
demand, and highlight for us those discretionary areas in which it appears prudent to step back at this time? Thank you
very much.
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Sure. Cleo, we've historically said, and I don't think it's changed much, that to kind of maintain
what we've currently got is about a $2 billion plus/minus number. And after that, it's things like technology, PTC,
capacity additions, commercial facilities, new equipment, et cetera.
<Q - Cleo Zagrean>: Okay. And would you be willing to share any – as if you were speaking to an engineer, what
areas would you like to – you see may be prudent for – as best candidates for retrenching next year?
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: As we're making our capital plans next year, we're just constantly evaluating both capital
productivity in terms of dollar per unit that we put in the ground or buy and where exactly we're putting it. So I won't
make any commentary on exactly what those plans look like.
<Q - Cleo Zagrean>: Okay. Thank you.
Operator
The next question is coming from the line of Ben Hartford with Robert W. Baird. Please go ahead with your question.
<Q - Ben J. Hartford>: Thanks. Good morning. Rob, quick question. I just wanted to get your perspective on the risks
to continue a return on asset improvement for the rail line. You've done a great job doubling it over the past seven
years. We've talked a lot about pricing on this call. But if you think about just the three simple factors to drive that
higher going forward, pricing, volume growth, and service improvement, in your mind, what is the biggest risk or point
of concern from your perspective as it relates to inhibiting continued ROA improvement for the rail lines of those three
kind of fundamental inputs?
<A - Robert M. Knight, Jr.>: Yeah. I mean, you're exactly right, Ben, that the levers, as you've heard us talk and as
you fully understand, the levers that drove us from where we once were to where we are today are productivity, which
is driven by the service. That service also enables us to get the right price in the marketplace. And volume is always our
friend in that calculus. We're going to control those that we can best control. So I would say, frankly, the biggest risk I
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 20 of 21
see at this point is that which we have less control on, and that's the economy, and what that then gives us in terms of
volume to play with. But as I've said many times, and you've heard us say, we're not going to use the lack thereof of
volume to slow us down on our initiatives to continue to make progress on that which we can control. But that's what
we're going to continue to do, as we have over the last decade.
<Q - Ben J. Hartford>: Okay. That's helpful. Thanks.
Operator
The next question is from the line of Jeff Kauffman with Buckingham Research. Please go ahead with your questions.
<Q - Jeffrey Kauffman>: Boy, you guys are popular. Congratulations. A question for Eric. A kind of broader picture.
As we look at the four areas that are kind of the biggest areas of the volume decline right now, so I'll throw coal in
there, metals, crude, and frac, when are you hopeful that you'll start to see positive year-to-year comparisons? And then
I have a follow-on related to that.
<A - Eric L. Butler>: Well, I think as we've been saying throughout the call, there is uncertainty about the going
forward outlook in all of those. And I'm not sure our prediction ability to predict is any better than anyone else.
Certainly, the strong dollar is impacting our metals steel business, our domestic metals steel business. Oil prices will be
a direct factor in terms of the amount of drilling, the amount of crude by rail. And then natural gas will be a direct
driver in terms of the amount of coal. So at those points an ability to predict those items, I'm not sure I have any better
ability than anybody else in the marketplace to do that.
<Q - Jeffrey Kauffman>: I was just curious your view. Yes. All right. Let me just follow up on that. The question was
asked earlier, you're attacking the variable cost and you're getting a lot more momentum with that. And I think you
mentioned we're not going to do much with the fixed cost in the coal network. But as you look at the railroad and how
these business units have changed just over the last 12 months, where do you think there are opportunities to attack the
fixed cost infrastructure beyond just taking down employees, and taking down locomotives and assets dedicated to it?
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Jeff? This is Lance. I don't think we said we are not going after fixed cost. We focused the
commentary on some of the variable costs. But where we have opportunity to for instance to reduce our CapEx or, for
instance, reduce the physical footprint of shops that maintain locomotives or other areas like that, we're going to take
advantage of those as well. I think what we were trying to impart is that our coal network is not isolated and
independent from our overall network. And so it would be very hard to tease out individual physical assets, hard assets
that are completely dedicated to coal and isolated on their own.
<Q - Jeffrey Kauffman>: Okay. So hence the shared network comment. Lance, thank you.
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Okay.
Operator
Our next question is the line of Don Broughton with Avondale Partners. Please go ahead with your questions.
<Q - Donald Allen Broughton>: Good morning, everyone. Real quick, I'm kind of just trying to do some back of the
envelope math here, and I look at what's been a 40% decline in fuel, and that's translated into essentially what is a 7.9%
headwind in pricing, if I look at your reduction in yield, realized and the core pricing of 3.5% that you stated. Would
that imply that you would, even if fuel were to go flat from current levels, that at least in the early part of next year, you
would have to – [ph] if you're (82:22) looking at a 16% decline in fuel, you'd have to achieve essentially a 3.2% or
higher core pricing in order for pricing realized to be flat?
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Rob?
Company Name: Union Pacific
Company Ticker: UNP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 21 of 21
<A - Robert M. Knight, Jr.>: Don, you may have stumped me in terms of the actual numbers that you just worked
through. Because I frankly wasn't following...
<Q - Donald Allen Broughton>: Relatively speaking.
<A - Robert M. Knight, Jr.>: Yes, but I would just say, that mix is clearly a factor in that, so just be careful in your
analysis to factor that in. And again, all I would say about the that pricing is we are going to continue to focus on
driving value to our customers, continue to drive productivity, and continue to drive price where we can in the
marketplace. And we know that the underlying value of our service product to our customers is a key component of
that. And it all kind of hangs together there. So we're going to continue to focus on driving as much as we can on it.
<Q - Donald Allen Broughton>: Well – so even with the best service available, are you going to be able to go to
customers whose volumes are down in the high single digit, low double-digit range, and ask for and receive better than
3% pricing?
<A - Lance M. Fritz>: Don, this is Lance. There is never a conversation that our commercial team enters into with a
customer on price that's easy. It doesn't matter if their volume is up or their volume is down. So clearly, Eric and his
team and in the environment that we're in right now have secured what in the third quarter 3.5% core price, and in the
previous quarters as much as 4% core price. None of that came easy or was a lay-up. And I expect them to continue
that good hard work into next year securing an appropriate price for the value that we represent to our customers.
<Q - Donald Allen Broughton>: Fair enough. Good luck.
<A - Robert M. Knight, Jr.>: Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes the question-and-answer session. I will turn the call back over to Mr. Lance Fritz for closing
comments.
Lance M. Fritz
Thank you very much, Rob. And thank you all for your questions and interest in Union Pacific this morning. We look
forward to talking with you again in January.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation. This does conclude today's teleconference. You may
disconnect your lines, and have a wonderful day.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.