Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 23
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Richard D. Kinder
• Steven J. Kean
• Kimberly Allen Dang
• Thomas A. Martin
• Dax A. Sanders
• Jesse Arenivas
• Ian D. Anderson
Other Participants
• Shneur Z. Gershuni
• Brandon Blossman
• Darren C. Horowitz
• Mark La France Reichman
• Kristina Kazarian
• Ted J. Durbin
• Faisel H. Khan
• Craig K. Shere
• Becca Followill
• Noah Lerner
• John Edwards
• Corey Benjamin Goldman
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Welcome to the quarterly earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are placed on listen-only until we start
the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any
objections, you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Rich Kinder, Executive Chairman of Kinder Morgan. Thank you. You
may begin.
Richard D. Kinder
Okay. Thank you, Vince. Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that as usual today's earnings release and this call
includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as well as certain
non-GAAP financial measures. We encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and use of
non-GAAP financial measures set forth at the end of our earnings release, as well as review our latest filings with the
SEC for a list of risk factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking
statements.
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 23
With that out of the way, let me get to the meat of the matter. As usual, I'll give an overview of the third quarter and in
addition, try to put some perspective on the happenings in our portion of the energy industry. Then I'll turn it over to
Steve Kean, our CEO, and Kim Dang, our CFO, who will talk in more detail about 2015 and the outlook for 2016. And
then as usual, we'll take any and all questions that you may have.
Let me start by reviewing our 2015 performance. We raised the dividend for the third quarter to $0.51, and we expect
to achieve our target of declaring $2 for our full year 2015. As you may recall, that's an increase of 15% over 2014 and
on top of that we estimate we will have excess coverage for the year of about $300 million. Now that's less coverage
than our budget which assumes $70 WTI and $3.80 natural gas prices, and Kim will take you through the details of that
variance, but still substantial in our view at the level of $300 million.
To me it demonstrates what we've been saying: that is that we are insulated from the direct and indirect impacts of very
low commodity environment but we're not immune. But I promise to put things in perspective. And let me try that.
If you take our $2 dividend and multiply it times the 2.2 billion shares outstanding, that's $4.4 billion of cash
distributions to shareholders that we will make for 2015. If you add to that $300 million in excess coverage that means
$4.7 billion of free cash flow after payment of all our operating expenses, our maintenance CapEx, interest on our debt.
Now we could have paid for all of our expansion CapEx for this year and had a lot of money left over. Our capital
expenditure budget for this year is about $3.5 billion estimated for the full year.
So with that in mind, I think that this idea that midstream energy companies like Kinder Morgan are not sustainable
generators of cash flow just doesn't hunt. Rather we elect to distribute the bulk of our free cash flow to our shareholders
and then pay for our expansion CapEx with the combination of equity and debt, and we intend to do this in the future.
That said we intend to continue covering all our dividends with our generated free cash flow and remain
investment-grade, watch our CapEx closely and continue within those parameters to grow our dividend. We're going to
be judicious about using common equity, and as Steve will explain we intend to use other means of raising equity so
that we will not be required to issue common equity or access those markets through at least the middle of next year.
Now let me also put in perspective our business and its prospects for the future. I talked about analogizing our business
to a toll road to the extent that you're probably tired of hearing it. I'm kind of sick of using it myself. And that phrase
though happens to be very true.
But I want to give you some hard cold facts about the natural gas story which is our single most important business. As
many of you know, our natural gas operations produce over half of our cash flow and we move about a third of all the
gas consumed in the United States. So to put it very simplistically, as natural gas demand grows, so do we.
Now everybody talks about natural gas being the fossil fuel of the future because it's abundant, cheap, domestic and
clean, and that's all true. But I thought it would be interesting to give you some actual factual detail on what's really
happening on both the demand and supply side of the natural gas story because it's so important to us and to other
midstream companies.
If you compare 2014 to 2015, Wood Mackenzie is now estimating there will be an increase in demand year-to-year of
5%. It's projected increase from today's level of 76 Bcf a day to about 110 Bcf a day by 2025 – that's an increase of
40%.
Now there're really four drivers of this growth. The first and probably the most interesting is electric generation. If you
look at the 2015 mix of generating output and this is according to EIA, 32% is gas and 33% coal. For those of you
who've been in this industry a long time or followed it you know that that represents a dramatic shift to the positive for
natural gas. If you flash ahead – again these are EIA numbers – to 2030, their projection of the mix of generation is
39% gas, 18% coal. If you want to look at something closer to home, ERCOT, state of Texas through July of 2015 had
a mix of 49% natural gas versus 39% a year ago.
If you want to look at Kinder Morgan specifically, our gas transportation volumes for electric generation are up 18%
year-to-date 2015 versus the same period 2014. Nationally, for the third quarter of this year a 4.4 Bcf a day increase
from the third quarter of 2014. So these are real numbers, real occurrences that are happening in the natural gas storage.
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 23
Wood Mac projects 8.6 Bcf a day growth in electric generation load from 2015 to 2025.
Now renewables get a lot of attention and they should but let me put them into perspective. To be frank about it, they're
small and less reliable. Wind and solar combined generated less than 5% of total U.S. generating load in 2014, and
indicative of the lack of reliability again 2014 numbers capacity utilization for wind was 34% and solar 28%. Now that
should not come as a surprise to anybody of any common sense because we should realize that the sun doesn't shine all
the time and the wind doesn't blow all the time but some people have apparently neglected that understanding.
But what this really means is that reliable flexible natural gas facilities are absolutely necessary to back up wind and
solar. So to sum up, the idea that we could move directly from coal to renewables without increasing natural gas usage
for electronic generation is an unrealistic pipe dream, with the substance in the pipe being legal only in Colorado and
Washington State.
Now added to the demand picture is the retirement of more coal plants due to environmental regulations and of
nuclear-fueled instruments due to age and operational issues. And you put all that together and you have a very bullish
growth outlook for natural gas and electric generation.
But there are other factors. The second demand driver is natural gas exports to Mexico. It's real and it's growing. Let
me give you the facts. Natural gas exports to Mexico for 2015 are expected to average 2.6 Bcf a day versus a 2014
average of 1.8 Bcf a day. That's an increase of 44%. This summer, we found that natural gas exports had at times
exceeded 3 Bcf a day.
Over the next four years, Mexico is expected to add 10.5 gigawatts of new natural gas capacity and it's expected that
another 3.2 gigawatts of oil power capacity will switch to natural gas. Meanwhile as I think most of us know, Mexico's
gas production continues to decline. Additionally, LNG imports to Mexico are on the decline and are expected to be
completely phased out by 2023. All of these factors support projections that by 2025 natural gas exports to Mexico are
expected to increase from the already elevated levels of 2015 by almost 3 Bcf a day.
Third driver is the tremendous build-out of U.S. industrial and petrochemical facilities. Let me give you the facts. The
American Chemistry Council now counts 243 projects, with a cumulative investment of $147 billion for the years 2010
to 2023. More germane, Texas alone accounts for 99 of those projects with the total value of over $48 billion and most
of those are in Southeast Texas which is the sweet spot of the heartland of our natural gas facilities, including Houston,
Corpus Christi and Beaumont.
Global chemical demand is expected to double from 2000 to 2040. Wood Mac estimates that over 2.5 Bcf a day of
additional natural gas will be required by 2018 from 2015 levels to meet industrial demand, driven by these methanol
fertilizer and petrochemical projects.
Finally let's talk about LNG exports. They're no longer years away. FERC-approved LNG export projects have 10.6
Bcf a day of capacity. By the end of this year, Sabine Pass Train 1 will be in service with 650 million a day of capacity.
By next year, with Sabine Pass Trains 1 through 3 online LNG capacity will be 1.95 Bcf a day.
By 2019, U.S. LNG export capacity will be 8.97 Bcf a day, only counting FERC-approved projects which have
achieved final investment decision. Now those are the trends that are driving U.S. demand to that extraordinary growth
I talked about to 110 Bcf estimated in 2025.
Do we have the supply to meet that? The Potential Gas Committee estimated at the end of last year, end of 2014, we
had nearly 2,900 Tcf of proven and potential reserves and that would be over 100 years of remaining resources relative
to the current U.S. natural gas demand.
Now in addition to being affordable and abundant, I want to stress again some facts about the environmental
friendliness of natural gas. It emits about half the carbon dioxide emitted by coal and over 30% less than fuel oil
according to the EIA. In fact natural gas has been essential to national and regional efforts to reduce carbon emissions.
The White House's Council of Economic Advisers reported earlier this year, and I quote, "natural gas is playing a
central role in the transition to a clean energy future." Report goes on to note that since 2007, energy-related CO2
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 23
emissions in the U.S. have fallen 10%, and a significant factor contributing to the reduction was fuel switching from
coal to natural gas for electric generation.
On a regional basis, ISO New England has stated that as a result of New England's transition from coal and oil to
natural gas from 2001 to 2013, regional emissions of CO2 fell by 23%. Regional emissions of NOx fell by 66% and
regional emissions of SOx fell by 91%. Now what I've given you is a lot of facts. But they demonstrate to us that
natural gas usage in this country is and will be robust and growing for an extended period of years. And for Kinder
Morgan which transports about a third of all the natural gas consumed, this paints a very positive business picture for
years to come.
And with that I will turn it over to Steve.
Steven J. Kean
Okay. And from what Rich just said, you can see why we are bullish about the fundamentals that drive our long-term
value but I'm going to return to the shorter-term for a minute. I'm going to pick up on what Rich said about being
judicious on use of common equity.
Because we are generating cash in increasing amounts in our business, we have the flexibility to fund our investments
in any number of ways, ranging from self funding them with the cash that we generate, all the way to disturbing our
cash to shareholders and accessing capital markets to fund our growth expenditures. We believe our investors value the
latter, so we have been working within that framework.
In a nutshell, what we have been working on and believe we have found is a way to break a cycle which we believe has
negatively affected the value of our equity. Specifically, the challenging market for energy commodities this year has
bled over to equity values for midstream energy companies. And because we have a significant backlog of projects,
growth projects – which is a good thing – we have issued into this challenged equity market for the last two quarters,
creating at least a perceived overhang in the market for our equity.
We believe in the medium- and long term the market will value our common equity appropriately and we believe the
market will value our particular structure that is a simplified large cap C corp with a substantial and growing dividend
also appropriately. But until that happens, we sought an alternative means to fund our growth capital needs without
needing to issue shares in the common equity market for the rest of this year and to mid-2016; that means not having to
use the ATM or underwritten offerings or bought deals. It means not having to sell common equity at all for that
period. Let me repeat that. It means not having to sell common equity at all for that period.
We've chosen the alternative we plan to use and that choice reflects our bullishness on the long-term value of our
common equity. And this comes from a management team and board with substantial holdings in common equity. So
here's the bottom line for our equity investors. First, we're taking off whatever pressure that our common equity
issuances were having on the stock. Second, we are continuing to fund our growth projects but at a lower long-term
cost of equity capital than continuing to issue common equity in today's market. Third, we're growing the dividend
while maintaining coverage of that dividend. Finally, we're maintaining our investment-grade rating which, we believe,
positions us well for acquisitions and expansions in this environment.
Before turning to the segments and the project backlog, there's an issue I'll try to address upfront. When we did our
consolidation transaction last year, we projected 15% dividend growth in 2015, with 10% annual growth from 2016 to
2020 and substantial excess coverage over the 2015 to 2020 period. Here's what we expect. We have not started our
2016 budget reviews with the business units yet. But we expect to be able to cover a dividend that is 6% to 10% higher
than the 2015 dividend which was 15% higher than last year. As we've said before, with what's happened in energy
over the last 12 months, the coverage we projected last year in the consolidation transaction has taken a substantial
head.
Nevertheless, and while projections through 2020 are very assumption-driven, we believe we could still have grown the
dividend at the rate we projected last year however coverage would've been tight over the period and could have been
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 23
negative part of the time. Other companies have elected to run at negative coverage but we believe the prudent decision
for KMI and we think the market is telling us this, is to continue to grow the dividend but preserve coverage over the
period.
Again, our underlying business is generating cash in increasing amounts. So for us it's not about finding a way to
continue investing in attractive opportunities, it's a question about finding the right combination of dividend growth and
coverage and the appropriate alternative financing. And we think that in today's broader energy sector, that's an
enviable position to be in.
I will turn to the backlog and the segments. The backlog first, since the July update, our project backlog decreased by
about $700 million from $22 billion to $21.3 billion. We placed almost $400 million worth of projects in service during
the quarter. The largest one of which was the second splitter in the Houston Ship Channel which went into service early
in the quarter.
We added about $700 million for the projects in the quarter, much of that coming from the Terminals business unit. We
also removed about $1 billion worth of projects from the backlog. The largest piece of which is further reductions in
our expansion capital expenditures in our CO2 business, as a result of moving some of our EOR and S&T investments
outside the timeframe of the backlog.
So for the segments, in the third quarter, we produced $1.839 billion of segment earnings before DD&A which
essentially flat to 2014 and that's a result of the decline in our CO2 segment year-over-year not being fully offset by the
year-over-year improvement in our Products and Terminals business segments.
For gas, gas was essentially flat year-on-year. We had commodity related volume impacts in our G&P sector. We had a
contract roll-off on KinderHawk in May, partially offset with an additional volume commitment on the Eagle Ford by
that same shipper. We have the KML, Kinder Morgan Louisiana, contract buyout that took place last year. We're
having the effect of that this year on earnings before DD&A and roll-offs on the Cheyenne Plains system.
Now those last three items were all anticipated in our budgeting process and we are still on track in gas to slightly
exceed the 2015 plan. We had higher transport volumes, up 5% across the segment as we saw a 15% increase in
power-driven natural gas demand year-over-year and 18% year-to-date as Rich mentioned.
Sales and gathered volumes were essentially flat year-over-year, crude and condensate gathered volumes in the gas
group were up 7% as a result of the addition of the Hiland gathering assets. We continue to see strong demand for
long-term firm natural gas transportation capacity.
We added 400 MMcf a day of firm long term commitments during the quarter, that brings the total capacity signed-up
since December of 2013 to 9.1 Bcf of new and pending long-term commitments. Of that 9.1 Bcf, it's worth noting 1.6
Bcf of that comes from existing previously unsold capacity. So these sign-ups are adding to our project opportunities
but also making better use of the existing capacity that we have.
A couple of project updates here. We made great progress during the quarter signing up long-term commitments for
capacity on the supply portion of Northeast Energy Direct. We've not yet moved this project into the backlog, pending
some further progress on additional commitments. But the prospects for adding this to the NED Market Path project
which is in our backlog materially improved during the quarter.
We also had good progress on the NED Market Path. We went out with a customized offering for the electric load in
New England, a much-needed load, much-needed for gas. And we had a few favorable rulings and recommendations in
the state regulatory processes, including approving our existing LDC contracts and also creating a good opportunity to
secure the electric load that we need to make this project very attractive economically. So we continue to see strong
demand for existing and expansion capacity on our gas assets and we believe we're well positioned for the growth that
Rich outlined that we see in the years ahead for those markets.
We did have a setback on the Elba project. We got a Scheduling Order that slows the regulatory process at FERC by
four to five months versus what we expected. We may seek modifications to that order to try to improve on that
schedule, and we're certainly going to look for ways to claw back some of that in the project execution phase.
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 23
Turning to CO2. Earnings there before DD&A were $282 million, down 22% year-over-year, for pricing reasons
primarily, also some volume reasons as well. Our volumes are down year-over-year by 2% on a net basis. Now a few
more points on that. First, the decline in net volume can be more than explained by a timing issue on Yates. Our net
numbers that you see in the release are based on sold volumes. But some of the production in Yates was produced in
September, but not transported for sale until October. The amount of that totally offsets the year-over-year downturn
for the whole net production of the group. Second, SACROC was down slightly for the quarter but up 6% year-to-date
and on track for a record year. Finally Goldsmith and Katz were both up year-over-year, but continue to be well below
our plan.
We have been successful in extracting cost savings in this segment. We continue to forecast reductions in our OpEx
and maintenance CapEx of just under 25% for the year. We have also seen cost savings in our expansion projects, and
as demonstrated by the adjustments to the backlog, we are rightsizing the spend in this segment in light of the current
commodity price environment.
Turning to the products group. Segment earnings before DD&A were $287 million, that's up 29% year-over-year,
driven by the ramp-up of volumes on KMCC, our crude and condensate line serving the Eagle Ford. The addition of
Double H Pipeline from the Hiland acquisition, improved performance on SFPP, as well as better year-over-year results
on Cochin. Also, early in the quarter we placed the second of our two splitters in service in the Houston Ship Channel.
Volumes are strong here with refined products volumes up 2.5% on our systems year-over-year compared to a
nationwide EIA growth rate of 1.5%. And year-to-date we're running a little bit over 3%. We continue to advance our
Palmetto refined products pipeline project and our UTOPIA NGL pipeline project.
Turning to Terminals. Segment earnings before DD&A were $263 million, up 6% from last year. This segment is the
tale of two cities. Our liquids business performing very well both in terms of ongoing business and the growth
opportunities while our bulk business has been hit with declining coal and steel business impact of the Alpha Natural
Resources bankruptcy on our coal business. FX was also a negative factor for the Canadian portion of our Terminals
operations.
On the liquids side, we're benefiting from higher renewal rates, particularly in Houston, benefiting from expansions in
Houston and Edmonton that we brought online and from additions to our Jones Act tanker fleet.
We also announced early in the quarter the Philly Tankers acquisition which takes our fleet up to 16 vessels, all but two
of which are under charter and the other two are in active negotiation even before they roll out of the yard.
We announced yesterday a joint venture with BP on about 9.5 million barrels of their refined product storage assets.
This is exactly the kind of deal we want to do with companies that have midstream business assets embedded in a
larger organization. We believe we can make a win-win here with BP. BP will contract for substantial capacity in
support of their marketing activity and then we have the ability to operate and attract third-party business, operate this
more efficiently and attract third party business to these assets. We look forward to expanding our already productive
relationship with them and finding other opportunities like this.
Finally for Canada, the segment is down $8 million year-over-year all of which can be explained by FX. The pipeline
system itself continues to benefit from high utilization. The big news as always here is the Trans Mountain Expansion
Project. We received our draft conditions in August, a little bit later than what we had expected. We believe they will
be manageable, though we did seek some important changes, especially around the time required to approve specific
portions of the build.
One of our expert witnesses was hired or appointed to the NEB. Out of an abundance of caution, the NEB ordered us to
file substitute testimony which we did in September but the result of all this was they delayed the date for their
decision, their recommendation, from the end of January of 2016 to the end of May, May 20, 2016.
We're still working through the full effect of that and the ultimate impact on our in-service date is ultimately going to
depend on the final conditions that we receive in May. However we're going to do the best we can here to give you an
estimate of the range of that impact and we estimate today a range of in-service dates between yearend 2018 and
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 23
October of 2019. Again there are lot of moving parts here and we're going to be working hard on our detailed project
execution plan to optimize all that but that's about the best guidance we can give you sitting here today on the
in-service dates. A reminder also that this expansion is under long-term contracts which have been approved by the
NEB. We're very excited about this project. It's very good for our shareholders. We're going to get it done, but we are
experiencing this delay.
That's it for the segment and project updates, so I'll turn it over to Kim.
Kimberly Allen Dang
Thanks, Steve. Looking at the GAAP income statement first before I move to DCF. On the face of the GAAP income
statement, you will see that revenues are down significantly versus the corresponding period last year. But you'll also
see that OpEx is significantly reduced.
If you net out the certain items that impact revenues and OpEx, the largest of which are the $198 million contract
buyout on KMLA in the third quarter of 2014 and the CO2 mark-to-market. OpEx was down slightly more than
revenue, both in the quarter and the year-to-date.
As I've said the last two quarters, changes in revenues is not a good predictor of our performance. We have some
businesses where revenues and expenses fluctuate with commodity prices but margin generally does not. We also do
not think that EPS is a good performance indicator. But for those of you who need EPS without certain items for
compliance reasons, the EPS without certain items is approximately $0.16 a share.
We believe the better indicator of our performance is the cash that we generate which we express in DCF per share and
the cash that we distribute which is the dividend per share and so with that I'll go to our calculation of distributable cash
flow.
As Rich said, we're declaring a dividend today of $0.51 which is an increase of $0.16 (sic) [16%] (28:27) over the third
quarter of last year. Year-to-date that results in dividends of $1.58, which is a 15% increase over the $1.48 declared for
the nine month in 2014.
We generated DCF for the quarter of $1.129 billion and $3.47 billion for the first nine months of the year. Both periods
are up significantly over the prior year. The prior-year results are prior to our Fusion transaction close and so that a lot
of the benefit in DCF is due to the fact that the MLPs are no longer outstanding. And you can see that benefit in the line
entitled MLP declared distributions.
I think the better way to look at our results is to look at the DCF per share which takes into account both the benefits to
DCF of the transaction, as well as the cost of the 1.1 billion shares that we issued to purchase the MLPs. DCF per share
is $0.51 in the third quarter versus $0.44 (sic) [$0.42] (29:30) in the third quarter last year which is an increase of
approximately 21%.
Year-to-date we have generated $1.58 versus $1.29 that we paid or 22% increase. The $0.51 in DCF per share for the
quarter results in coverage of about one times in the quarter and for year-to-date we have coverage of well over $200
million.
Now there are a couple of certain items that I should mention and then I'll give you some details on our full-year
outlook. We reported in the quarter $387 million non-cash impairment on our Goldsmith deal, which is in our CO2
segment. Now it's primarily driven by lower crude prices.
The other certain items of any significance, the fair value amortization and the mark-to-market, we see those in most
quarters and we've discussed them in the past. The only exception is in the other category. It includes a $22 million
write-off of receivables associated with the Alpha bankruptcy.
The $22 million represents revenues reported in periods prior to 2015. The $15 million negative impact associated with
2015 revenues is shown in the segment. And this is consistent with our philosophy of trying to strip out of our
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 23
segments' prior periods one times and the sporadic cost and benefits to show you the ongoing cash generating ability of
our assets.
Now the full year outlook. First, we expect to end the year with approximately $300 million in excess coverage which
is below our budget by about $350 million. But let me put this in perspective. That reduction is just 6% of our total Bcf
and only about 5% of our EBITDA. Now we'll go through the components of that. If you utilize the metrics that we
gave you in January, of the $10 million change in DCF for every dollar change in crude and a $3 million change in
DCF for every $0.10 change in natural gas, the impacts to our results is approximately $235 million. That is a little less
than – that's approximately a $70 million deterioration from what we expected at the time of the second quarter call due
to deteriorations in commodity prices subsequent to that call.
As we talked about last quarter, our sensitivity assumed a constant NGL to crude ratio. That ratio is actually
deteriorated from what we had in our budget, meaning that NGL prices have deteriorated more than crude prices. And
we estimate that impact to be a little bit less than $30 million. The direct commodity exposure accounts for a significant
portion of our coverage variance. Lower CO2 volumes, lower midstream volumes and the decline in the Canadian
exchange rate on a combined basis are about $100 million impact. So those items when you add them all together gives
you pretty close to where we expect to end up.
Now there are lots of other moving pieces. We've seen benefits in interest expense. We've seen CO2 and other cost
savings. We've got downsized in coal and steel in our Terminals business. We've got lower oil production volumes in
our CO2 segment. We've got lower volumes from some of our products assets. And we've got lower capitalized
overhead as a result of reduced expansion CapEx. But all of these other moving pieces essentially net out to be a small
positive.
Now to look at the individual pieces to give you a little bit more granularity. We expect natural gas to end the year
slightly above budget as Steve mentioned. We expect that the positive impact of the Hiland acquisition to largely be
offset by the lower commodity prices and lower gathering and processing volumes affecting our midstream business.
We expect CO2 to end the year approximately 15% below and that's actually a little bit more than our commodity price
sensitivity would indicate. And that's being driven by lower crude oil volumes, lower CO2 volumes and lower
capitalized overhead, slightly offset by about $43 million in cost savings.
We expect Terminals to end the year about 6% below its budget and that's associated with lower coal and steel
volumes. The largest piece being the $22 million impact of the Alpha bankruptcy and the FX associated with the
weaker Canadian dollar.
We expect products to end the year slightly below its budget and that – there the positive impact of Double Eagle
pipeline which was acquired in the Hiland acquisition is slightly more than offset by about $20 million of commodity
prices on the segment, that's consistent with our sensitivity that we gave you and lower volumes on a number of assets.
We expect KMC to be below its budget by the year due to FX and that's going to be, we think, about $20 million. We
expect to have positive variances versus our budget and interest, negative variance in G&A. Those two items largely
offset each other. The variance in G&A is driven by incremental G&A from the new Hiland employees and lower
capitalized overhead as a result of lower expansion capital spending.
On interest, incremental interest associated with the Hiland transaction is more than offset by lower balance and lower
rates. Finally, we expect cash taxes and sustaining CapEx to come in lower than our budget; said another way, we
expect them to be a favorable variance versus our budget.
And with that, I'll move to the balance sheet. We ended the quarter with about $42.5 billion in debt. That translates into
debt to EBITDA of about 5.8 times. That is consistent with where we ended the second quarter. We still expect to end
the year at about 5.6 times debt to EBITDA. The change in debt for the quarter, there was a reduction in debt of about
$172 million. And for the full year it's an increase in debt of $1.845 billion. So let me reconcile those for you.
On the quarter, we spent about a little less than $980 million in expansion CapEx and contributions to equity
investments. We made a $50 million pension contribution. We had about $7 million in warrant repurchase. We issued
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 23
equity of $1.27 billion. We had coverage of $2 million and then we had working capital and other items of just over
$60 million. Year-to-date the $1.845 billion, we spent about $6 billion this year just under that on acquisitions,
expansion capital and contributions to equity investments, still in our investment program.
About $3.3 billion of that was acquisitions, about $2.65 billion was on expansion capital. We made a pension
contribution of $50 million. We repurchased warrants of $12 million. We issued a little over $3.8 billion in equity. We
had a tax refund of $194 million that came in the first quarter. We've had coverage of about $228 million and then
working capital and other items, or use of cash of about $45 million.
So with that, I'll turn it over to Rich.
Richard D. Kinder
Okay. And with that, Vince, if you'll come back on, we'll take any questions you may have.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Shneur Gershuni with UBS. Your line is now open.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Hello, Shneur. How are you doing?
<Q - Shneur Z. Gershuni>: Good. How are you, Rich?
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Good.
<Q - Shneur Z. Gershuni>: Good. Just a couple of quick questions. I guess if we can start off with the financing plans
that you alluded to in the prepared remarks. I guess you talked about widening of the dividend growth range which is
probably prudent in this current market environment. But you also mentioned no need for equity until the second half
of next year. I imagined excess dividend coverage is part of it but I was wondering if you can elaborate on how you're
thinking about it. Are you thinking about a convert? Is this something that the rating agencies typically scores equity?
Just any incremental color would definitely be helpful to understand the financing plans for next year.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Well, unfortunately the SEC rules prohibit us from really going into any more detail, but as
Steve said, we have picked a vehicle and we intend to implement that.
<Q - Shneur Z. Gershuni>: Okay. Fair enough. I was wondering if we can talk about the backlog next. You've
removed some projects from the CO2 bucket, but you also did net-add $700 million worth of projects. I was wondering
if you can talk about in an environment where much longer for lower commodity environment, outside of CO2, what
do you think the sensitivity of commodity prices would be to the balance of the backlog? Is there a price that you're
thinking about today that has sort of benchmarks what gets into the backlog and so forth? If you could give us some
color as to how we think about that, that would be helpful.
<A - Steven J. Kean>: Yeah. It's really not commodity price-driven at all. So what we are putting in the backlog
outside of CO2 which is a little bit different – I'll come back to that in a second. What we're putting into the backlog are
things that we have contracts on and we're waiting on a permit. Some of the stuff that's in the backlog is already under
construction. It just hasn't – we don't have revenue yet because it hasn't gone into service.
So these are high probability projects that are secured by contracts where the customer is really taking the risk on what
the volume is going to be and what the commodity price is going to be, ultimately.
So these are really – with the exception of CO2 which again I'll come back to – these are midstream assets where
people are buying the space from us and securing and under contracts and then we go get it approved and build it. And
if we think it's a high probability that it gets done, it makes into the backlog. And that's really the criteria. It's that
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 23
probability of completing it and getting revenue from it for our investors.
CO2, and I've said this before when we talked about additions to the CO2 backlog in the past in a different commodity
price environment, CO2 is more programmatic spend, right? It is driven more by – we're going to invest in this
development or we're going to invest in this expansion, because we think the pricing is there to support it. And we try
to be conservative in that pricing and all of that. But that's a little bit more programmatic and therefore is more driven
by commodity spend or commodity pricing.
Now the other thing that's going on in CO2 this year that you will see is that the S&T part of our business, we feel like
we've got – we've got a much smaller CapEx plan that we need in order to meet the demand for CO2 as we see it. And
so we've scaled back investments. For example, we talked about the Lobos Pipeline earlier. We had talked about the
Cortez Pipeline, which we're proceeding with in part.
We've scaled back that to deal with a current flattening of demand, call it, in the CO2 environment. The other thing
that's happened in CO2 is that we've had good results on the projects we have proceeded with. So for Cow Canyon, for
example, we were not even quite halfway into our drilling program. We had very good results and we don't see the
need to finish that program until we see additional demand. The additional production that we got from the first six
wells or so was enough to take care of what we think we need.
So that's how the backlog shapes up. You've got to separate CO2 from the other midstream parts of the business and
those are contractually secured.
<Q - Shneur Z. Gershuni>: One last question if I may. You talked about the backlog being contracted and so forth. I
was wondering if you can remind us of your customer breakdown. If I remember correctly you're not that linked to the
producers and it's more to utilities and industrial customers. I was wondering if you happen to have that breakdown of
customers on hand as to how it looks in your backlog and legacy business?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: Yes. There are a couple of ways to get at that. First of all, we have a very broad customer base.
So we have very few customers that account for even more than 1% say of our revenues. So we've got utilities. We
have producers like BP and Shell, are very large customers of ours, utilities are large customers, the refiners, the
integrators all of them and producers and LNG.
So we've got a very broad group. The other way of looking at it is just kind of where our growth is coming from. And I
think in this 9.1 Bcf, I think there's about – I'm talking about the gas side now. The 9.1 Bcf of what we've signed up,
about a third each goes to LNG and producers and then the other third is made up of utilities and Mexico, really. So
that's how that breaks down.
<Q - Shneur Z. Gershuni>: Great. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Brandon Blossman with Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Company. Your line is
open.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Good afternoon.
<Q - Brandon Blossman>: Good afternoon, everybody. I guess, Steve, to get back to the financing question in the
alternate forms, won't hit on that specifically. But you have a plan for the next call it nine months plus. What do you
need to see change – the answer is probably pretty apparent but what do you need to see in change in terms of common
equity to be comfortable going back to that as a form of financing. Is it just a yield program problem or is it a depth or
liquidity problem for the common?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: It's not a liquidity problem in any way, shape or form. We're very liquid security and then the
market has a significant appetite for the security. So, it's really more the cost of that equity capital to us. And what we
believe we're seeing, Brandon, is a temporary situation where the cost of that common equity is higher than, at least in
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 23
our opinion our judgment, higher than it should be. And it's created a situation where we can access alternative forms
of capital at a lower long-term cost of capital for this interim period whatever it turns out to be.
There wasn't any particular magic in doing it to mid next year other than to communicate to you and all the other
investors out there that we have options and we can stay out of the common equity market for a significant period of
time. So there's not a magic number that we have in mind to come back in. It's really going to be more driven by the
cost of our available sources of capital. And I think we're going to be demonstrating to you that we've got flexibility in
that regard.
<Q - Brandon Blossman>: Thank you. That's actually very helpful. And then on the project side, Northeast Direct, is
it fair to make the assumption that the power product for the demand side of the project was tied to the Massachusetts
ruling, and is it necessary for other states to kind of have a similar ruling in terms of allowing gas supply into the power
gen rate base in order to have...
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: The Massachusetts ruling is very positive, obviously. Beyond that, Steve...
<A - Steven J. Kean>: Yes, I'll start and then Tom can fill in, too. So the EDC, the what we call PowerServe offering
that's specific to power generators or the power market, let's call it, predated the Massachusetts order. But the
Massachusetts order was very affirming in that regard, we believe. The recognition of and the need to provide a
mechanism for approving and recovering the cost associated with the needed upstream firm gas transportation capacity.
So those things go very much hand in glove in our mind.
Other states will be doing their own processes to figure out how they are going to approach the securing of the
contracts they need for their power generating sectors. But we're very optimistic about that. Now having said that, we're
not going to come back next month and expect to see a whole bunch of the power loads signed up. We think this is
going to take time because these things are processes.
What Massachusetts is going to do is they're going to expect, I think, utilities to go out with some kind of a competitive
process. And so it will take us some time. But we are very -- we're delighted with the steps that have been taken so far
to put us in a position to place more of this capacity in the service of the power sector. And Tom?
<A - Thomas A. Martin>: Yeah. I guess the only thing I would add to that, Steve, is New Hampshire was also very
positive in their PUC process and comments about natural gas and need for additional infrastructure into the region.
New England ISO has been very positive along the way stating that there's needed additional reliability with the
electric grid in this area by adding additional infrastructure. And we can't say a lot about the Open Season process, but I
think there is interest in that, that's showing consistent with, kind of, the trend of showing a need for an incremental
infrastructure into the region. So I think there have been some very positive developments here over the last quarter.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: And look, let me just pound the table one more time on this issue. Just in the past few
weeks you've had another nuclear facility announced that it's closing down. The thought is that there will be a second
one. And that's on top of one that was already scheduled to be shut down. You can't take 500 megawatts or 600
megawatts out and expect not to be able to use natural gas to fuel your needs for electric generation. And the idea that
somehow a swan is going to swoop down and deliver wind power or solar panel in the next few months or years even
to New England is just not facing reality.
And the only practical choice in our judgment, and it's a mix of a lot of things, but natural gas has got to play we
believe a major role in generating capacity in New England. And this is the whole underpinning of the whole Northeast
Direct project on top of the very nice LDC demand that we have already buttoned up.
<Q - Brandon Blossman>: Yes, okay. So momentum moving in your favor, and, yes, I understand that there are many
sunny days in the Northeast as one would like. And then just finally, real quick 630 million a day on the supply portion
of Northeast Direct actually is in my mind a surprisingly large amount but it sounds like you guys are still looking for
more on that side of the project?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: Yeah, we're still a little bit early in getting some of the LDC piece of that. So that's really it's
kind of producer push and some significant local power demand and a little bit of LDC. But we think there's more of
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 23
the utility load coming and so we're actively working on that. And think we'll get some of it.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Yeah. I'd say we'll know a lot more here over the next three months or four months.
<Q - Brandon Blossman>: Okay. Thank you very much, guys.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Darren Horowitz with Raymond James. Your line is open.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: All right. How are you doing?
<Q - Darren C. Horowitz>: Hey, fine. Thanks, Rich. Hope you and everybody are doing well. Steve, a couple of
quick questions. The first to the extent that you can answer it. With regard to lowering your long-term cost of capital,
can you just give us – even if it's a rough quantification – the magnitude of cost of capital savings that you guys have
penciled up with regard to reinvesting free cash flow versus the issuance of common equity burdened by multiyear
dividend growth ahead? I'm just curious when you did the analysis on that cost savings, was it more built on the
extrapolation of 6% to 10% annual div growth through the end of the decade, or what was the duration and how much
do you think you can save?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: Unfortunately, Darren, I can't get into those specifics. But I think I can say that it was a
substantial savings and enough so that we are prepared to execute on it.
<Q - Darren C. Horowitz>: Okay. Well, if I could just shift gears back to, Rich, in your prepared commentary about
being financially flexible for the opportunity of third-party assets. How do you think the Northeast infrastructure
supply-demand dynamic changes, not just via the pending large-scale midstream consolidation that's out there and
maybe the impact on either commercializing the supply portion of NED or maybe commercializing the revised scale or
scope of UMTP but I'm also thinking about any sort of opportunities that you guys see from a demand pull
infrastructure perspective, maybe some downstream logistical opportunities, maybe some with increased residual value
that gives you the opportunity to leverage your refined products business or your terminal footprint. Any commentary
there would be helpful.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Well, I think there are a lot of opportunities and I think that as we've said so many times,
having the footprint and the diverse assets that we have is a big plus in working out those kind of possibilities. And so
obviously we see a lot of upside and a lot of potential. It doesn't take – everybody is aware of the fact that you've got a
whole bunch of gas and liquids basically being underutilized or underpriced coming out of the fastest growing
producing region in America.
And getting those to the most needed market or where the greatest need is, New England is the first priority. But as
we've said all along, we've reversed sizeable portions of the Tennessee system to get it back down to this area to serve
LNG load, the petrochemical load that I referred to. So there's just a whole bunch of opportunities for us. And I think as
we build these new projects, they will lead to additional opportunities just as the Tennessee system has led to all these
opportunities over the last couple of years. Tom, anything else on that?
<A - Thomas A. Martin>: No, [ph] I think it's all good (52:53).
<Q - Darren C. Horowitz>: Thanks, Rich.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Mark Reichman with Simmons & Company. Your line is open.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Hey, Mark, how are you doing?
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 23
<Q - Mark La France Reichman>: Good. Good. Just a quick question on the rating agencies. I think on the last call,
it was mentioned that they were willing to live with the elevated credit metrics until Elba and Trans Mountain were
starting to contribute which would show some improvement in the credit metrics. And I was just wondering now that it
looks like both of those projects are experiencing maybe some modest delays to the schedule, what have your
conversations been with the rating agencies and how they in terms of what they are kind of looking for and timeframes
for living with an elevated credit metric?
<A - Kimberly Allen Dang>: Sure. So this is recent news both on Trans Mountain and Elba but with – if the projects
get pushed out, so does the spend. And so what's driving the leverage to stay high over time is the fact that you're
spending dollars with no cash flow coming in. And so I believe we'll be able to manage through that.
<Q - Mark La France Reichman>: And so that kind of maybe plays into managing spending and retaining more cash
flow to fund growth as well as to deal with the weaker fundamental environment?
<A - Kimberly Allen Dang>: I don't really think about the project and the project delays being linked to our decision
to go to the range or to look at coverage, no.
<Q - Mark La France Reichman>: Okay. And...
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: And let me just say again just to be very clear on the range, as Steve and Kim have both
indicated, we're just at the beginning of our budget process for 2016. So we're just giving you a range. It doesn't mean it
won't be 10%. We've given you a range from 6% to 10%. And we are going to be very judicious about how we
approach the whole situation. But it is a range. It's not excluding the upper end of the range at all. So I think that's
important to keep in mind as we move forward.
<Q - Mark La France Reichman>: Thank you. That's very helpful.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Kristina Kazarian with Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.
<Q - Kristina Kazarian>: Hey, guys. Appreciate the market...
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Hi, Kristina.
<Q - Kristina Kazarian>: So can you guys just talk a little bit maybe help me get some clarity around the decision to
lower the bottom end of the range to 6%. Like how did you settle on that number and then what it implies for the
longer-term range that we people have been using on 2017, 2018 and 2019, if there's anything there?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: Yes, the 6% to 10% is just the uncertainty that we have before we go into the budget process
and wanting to make sure that we're going to be able to fulfill that and also aim for an appropriate amount of coverage.
And in terms of kind of the longer range, I don't know how much you can really read into that. I think you have to look
at all the kind of tos and fros within our underlying assumptions. If you go back to where we were when we announced
the consolidation transaction, and just try to examine okay what's changed over that year, certainly the one thing that's a
negative that we've talked about at length here has been the change in commodity prices, the direct and indirect impact
of that.
On the plus side, we had a much improved tax depreciation benefit and a tax depreciation number from what we had
when we originally rolled out the assumptions around the consolidation transaction, such that we now feel pretty
confident we're not going to be any kind of a significant cash taxpayer until 2020.
If you think about the other things that were moving at the time, we also I think we projected some capital spend. I
think we've been basically on track on the amount of capital that we've deployed, although we do have some pluses and
minuses associated with project delays or we have some minuses associated with project delays. So I think we've been
able to find plenty of opportunities to invest in the capital. And then – trying to think there's one other factor in there
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 23
that built into – we did not include anything for acquisitions, yeah. So, we I think had a couple hundred million dollars,
and we had some small kind of tuck-in acquisitions assumed at the time. And if we did one or two significant
acquisitions over the time period, that would be potential upside to those numbers. So...
<Q - Kristina Kazarian>: I was going to say -- when I think about it historically, you guys normally give me the
budget update I think in December. Do I think about from a long-term perspective, maybe I get an update in
December? Do I get it with like the next Analyst Day? How just roughly should I be thinking about this?
<A - Kimberly Allen Dang>: Generally, we've updated our guidance in January. But I think go back to what Steve
said at the beginning, which is, when we did Fusion, we believe we could grow at 10% per year and we had substantial
excess coverage. And what we're saying today is that the deterioration in the energy markets has essentially taken away
a lot of that excess coverage, so some of our flexibility.
And so we could still choose to grow at the 10% but coverage might be – could be – we don't know, projections are
very assumption driven, could be very tight. And so we're just going to give ourselves the flexibility as we go forward
to decide on how much coverage and how much to grow.
<Q - Kristina Kazarian>: Really helpful. And then just lastly when I'm thinking about your target leverage level for
yearend. I know we talked [ph] regularly (59:10) about the 5.6 times. How do I think about that number for 2016,
2017? What's the longer-term target I should be thinking of?
<A - Kimberly Allen Dang>: In terms of the debt to EBITDA, I think what we have expected is to run at the higher
end of the range, 5.6 times for a number of years until we get Trans Mountain, some of the other projects on and then
we would expect that to decline to the low 5s times.
<Q - Kristina Kazarian>: Okay. Thanks, guys. And I appreciate your market commentary at the beginning. It was
really helpful.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Ted, how are you?
<Q - Ted J. Durbin>: Hey, Rich, I'm doing all right. I guess I hate to beat this dead horse but the coverage issue is
really what I'm kind of focused here. And it just feels like moving 8% at the midpoint for 2016, how do we think about
that on a multiyear basis? You historically ranked KMP pretty tight on coverage. Are you saying that you think because
of the lower for longer environment, coverage needs to be wider? I'm just trying to get a sense of where your head is on
coverage?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: Well, again, I think what we're – and we think the market is telling us this that where things are
valued right now and at our current equity yield, it doesn't appear that people are really valuing the growth in dividend
so much as they are, kind of some stability around that.
And so what we are trying to dial into here is make sure that over the period, over the next several years we have a
growing dividend and really a substantially growing dividend because the underlying cash flows in our business are
growing but that we dial in appropriate coverage on that. And so we're going to be striking that balance as we go but
that's I think the message we're hearing from the market and that's what we're acting on.
<A - Kimberly Allen Dang>: And I think another important factor is we're continuing to generate the cash flow. As I
said, if we want to grow at 10%, we can grow at the 10%. So what I think people ought to be concerned about is what's
happening in the underlying business. And then we can make adjustments as we understand what the market value.
So if the dividends are more important, we can pay those out. If it's more important to have some more flexibility than
to have coverage then we can do that. So I think – and let me just say we've been saying for a number of months now
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 23
that the coverage has been substantially diminished versus at the time we did Fusion because of the dramatic change in
commodity market. And so what we're saying today is no different with respect to what's happening underneath to our
assets. All we're doing is telling you how we're going to be flexible in the future with respect to the dividend.
<Q - Ted J. Durbin>: Understood. Understood. And I guess then again thinking through then the backlog and how
you're thinking about the hurdle rates on projects. I guess what you're saying is you're not happy with what the
valuation of the equity is. Have you changed at all the investment criteria you're using around CapEx?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: In every project that we pursue, we are looking to get the highest possible return available in
the market. And so that really hasn't changed. Now when it comes to the cost of the capital – so all the stuff that's in our
backlog is accretive. It's beneficial to our investors even with today's elevated yield and elevated cost of capital. It
obviously cuts into it a little bit the longer it lasts but they're still very attractive investments even at our current cost of
capital.
And we'll continue to be very judicious. And we're constantly reviewing among us and the business unit presidents
what our cost of capital is on a long-term basis, what it is on the near-term basis, and making sure that we're being very
careful to get returns that are an attractive premium to the cost of capital that we're incurring.
<Q - Ted J. Durbin>: And then the last one. I think I heard a comment, Steve, that you said you don't think you're not
going to be a cash taxpayer until 2020. I thought the number was more like 2017 or 2018. What's changed there that's
going to be out to 2020?
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: We now anticipate we will not be a significant Federal cash tax payer until 2020. And that
as Steve was saying, life in general is a mixed bag of things positives and negatives. And with return to – in terms of
Project Fusion what happened was, the negative obviously when we did that, we had the commodity price forward
curve much higher than it is today. Somewhat offsetting that is the fact that the tax situation has improved and we've
been able to extend the period during which we would not be a meaningful cash taxpayer. So that's a positive.
<Q - Ted J. Durbin>: A great. I will leave it at that. Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from [ph] Jeremy Smith (01:04:30) with JPMorgan. Your line is open.
<Q>: Good afternoon.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Good afternoon. How are you doing?
<Q>: Good. Thanks for the color today. I was just curious about this vehicle that you talked about, that you can't give
too much color on right now. When would you be able in a position to tell us more? Is there any timelines that you
could share with us as far as when you could tell us more about it?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: No timelines. I'm afraid it's as straightforward as you will know it when you know it. And
everybody will know it at the same time.
<Q>: Got you. And as far as this vehicle is concerned, does this improve leverage or does it just keep you out of the
equity markets. Is there anything that you can share with us on that?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: I think the only thing or the general things that we already said which is what we're
fundamentally trying to manage to, okay? One is accessing the capital markets in what we think is on a long-term
lowest cost of capital available today, right, basis. And second is maintaining investment-grade rating. And third of
course it should have been first is maximizing value to our shareholders. And so that's really the criteria that we use to
evaluate among the alternatives that were available to us.
<Q>: Got you. Great. And then just one last one. I know it's really early in the process and I know obviously
commodity price is a big part of it, but I'm just wondering when you're thinking about 2016 guidance and you talk
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 16 of 23
about some uncertainty there that could drive dividend growth within that range of 6% to 10%, what are the other
factors you see that are big variables that could push the results towards one end or the other?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: The reason again for the range is just that we haven't gotten the specificity yet that we need to
really to even be able to answer that question. The things that drive our business typically when we get into the budget
process, there's a big focus that we place on costs. That focus will be there again this year just as it always is. We want
to operate safely but efficiently. The year-over-year impacts of projects that have come online in 2015, the
year-over-year impacts of contracts that have renewed, our assumptions about future renewals during the year and there
will be pluses and minuses across the whole network that we'll be taking into account. But really, we think that for a
business of our size, it's remarkable that we can call our shots really as well as we can. And that's a function of the
underlying stability of our business and we've historically been able to be very tight about our projection and put
together a good budget. But those are the drivers that we look at really every year.
<Q>: Great. Thanks for that. And then just one last one, if I could. Just with regards to M&A out there, how do you
guys see the market at this point in time and does this vehicle preclude you from doing anything in that arena?
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Certainly, it doesn't preclude us, but I'll let Dax Sanders our VP of Corporate Development
talk a little bit about the M&A market.
<A - Dax A. Sanders>: Yeah. Just give me a little flavor of the market and I kind of break the market into three
buckets based on value, with respect to asset deals and kind of what I'd call low to mid nine figures, or call it, a few
hundred million dollars, I think we're starting to see some opportunities. We obviously just announced the BP deal and
I think we're going to find some more deals over the next six to 12 months that are similar in size.
And as always, no guarantees, but I think there's going to be some opportunities to do one or more deals in that range.
They don't necessarily move the needle as much as larger deals that are nice investments nevertheless.
You move up a little bit, it's a potential asset deal, single asset deals that are in, call it, the billion-plus range. We
continue to evaluate deals in that range and have looked at quite a few recently. But we really just haven't gotten their
own valuation. I think the bid/offer spread issue that's so often discussed is persistent there. When taken into account,
seller's expectations on price and just the risks inherent, we simply haven't seen situation where we wanted to pull the
trigger and I really have no idea when that is going to change.
With respect to larger corporate deals, who knows. As always those types of deals are much more difficult to do
generally and especially to predict when they might be done. And of course regarding any large deal, we have to make
sure that our shareholders are rewarded for going down that path.
<A - Steven J. Kean>: Yeah. And nothing in what we're planning – nothing and as I said at the beginning, what we're
trying to do is including by maintaining investment-grade rating is keep ourselves in good position to access that M&A
market for opportunities that are attractive to us.
<Q>: And anything on the international side of interest there or really kind of a North American focus?
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: So far still a North American focus. We would have to have really superb attractive returns
to go outside of North America, I think. And we see plenty of continuing opportunities in North America. But again as
we've said, acknowledging the fact that we're no longer an MLP means that it gives us more ability, more flexibility to
do projects outside of North America. But again that would have to be very high return projects for us.
<Q>: Very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Faisel Khan with Citigroup. Your line is open.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Hi, Faisel. How are you doing?
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 17 of 23
<Q - Faisel H. Khan>: Good. How are you doing Rich? Thanks for the time. Just Dax, going back to your comments
around M&A. I appreciate you splitting it up into three different buckets. On the third bucket, the large corporate
M&A, are you saying that the valuations still don't look attractive or is it – because we've seen a lot of carnage in the
MLP and midstream space. I'm just trying to understand what your view is on the value, the corporates that sit in the
market today?
<A - Dax A. Sanders>: Yeah. So by the third bucket I assume you mean the larger [indiscernible] (01:10:46), as we
always say you got to have three things. First, you got to want the assets – you're going to have to convert three things.
First, you got to want the assets and then you got to have the valuation and then you got to have the social issues. You
got to have sort of the perfect convergence of those three items to make a deal happen and obviously we can't comment
on any specific situation. But I think probably any situation you can – having the three of those converges is just
extremely difficult and extremely difficult to predict when that's going to happen.
<Q - Faisel H. Khan>: Okay. And in terms of financing your growth, if you look out in the debt markets today what's
your preferred sort of mode in terms of financing your capital spending? Is it through fixed floating or and how your
debt issuance costs look today versus what they were six months ago?
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Kim?
<A - Kimberly Allen Dang>: Sure. We're going to fund in order to maintain investment grade. So whatever mix of
equity and debt that we need to do to maintain investment grade. Typically on new issuances, we are funding on the
debt side about 50% equity and about – I mean about 50% fixed and about 50% floating. As you know we're about
25% floating overall right now and that's just because when we did El Paso, that acquisition came with a lot of fixed
debt. But on an ongoing basis, typically we're swapping about 50% of our debt.
<Q - Faisel H. Khan>: Okay.
<A - Kimberly Allen Dang>: ...back to floating.
<Q - Faisel H. Khan>: Okay, got you. And then on the cost, as your debt issuance cost remain roughly the same over
the last six months, have you seen some issuers sort of see their spreads blow out a little bit even though they're
investment-grade?
<A - Kimberly Allen Dang>: Yeah, our spreads have widened some but the treasury has come down a little bit as
well. So it is a little bit higher today than it was six months ago.
<Q - Faisel H. Khan>: Okay, got you. And as I'm looking at your guys backlog of $21 billion, so what's the
procurement plan for that backlog of for steel and pipe and other sort of materials? We've seen the stronger dollar and
we've seen the steel costs come down. So what's the plan to try to reduce the cost of that backlog and sort of increase
returns, or is there a plan to sort of look at that?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: Well, there's always the plan to get everything for – get it as cheaply as we can and to
maximize our return by only spending as much as we have to and only spending it when we have to. And so we do that
kind of on a project-by-project basis and, Faisal, it's really a mix of things across the spectrum.
Sometimes we will get steel truckers that are negotiated because that is a variable commodity and on a lead-time
project – you're not sure what it's going to be when you get there. We've gone from having steel truckers. We've done
some preorders. We have done a variety of things and it's really pretty situation-specific but we're very focused on
finding the lowest-cost provider and reducing the spend as much as we can and managing it as close to when the
revenue, when the money starts to come in as we possibly can. And if anything, I think we're putting even more focus
on that than we have historically. It's just we're watching all those things very closely.
<A - Kimberly Allen Dang>: And Faisel, to go back to your question on debt issuance. I think it'd be a little bit less
than 100 basis points more expensive today than it was at mid-year.
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 18 of 23
<Q - Faisel H. Khan>: Okay. Got you. And then just on the backlog, so does that incorporate sort of where steel costs
are today and where they were sort of six to nine months ago?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: We keep those things up-to-date. We review our major projects every month. And at least once
a quarter, we go through what our procurement group is showing us as the price per horsepower, the price per a ton of
steel, the price for various diameters of pipe, et cetera. So we're tracking that pretty closely. And every month we're
asking, do we have cost savings. Are we starting to see contractors cut their prices because they're desperate for
business, same thing with equipment providers, materials providers and the rest of it and it's a mix.
Things are still pretty active in Houston and so we're not seeing much in the way of breaks there. But there are other
places clearly where contractors are getting hungrier, particularly in the CO2 business, but also in some of our other
assets. I don't know how better to answer it than to say we're very much on top of it.
<Q - Faisel H. Khan>: That's fair. I appreciate the time. Thanks, guys.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Craig Shere with Tuohy Brothers. Your line is open.
<Q - Craig K. Shere>: Good evening, fellows.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Craig, how are you doing?
<Q - Craig K. Shere>: Good. I appreciate the call and keeping it going a little longer here. Sorry to beat a dead horse.
Did I understand the answer to Brandon's question about this alternative vehicle and the timing through not only second
half this year but first half next year as just being – we got to pick some point in time and this could – we could really
defer the equity issuance on an ongoing basis beyond that. We're picking this point in time to start. Is that what I
thought I heard you say?
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: What we're saying is that we have mapped out a plan to avoid the necessity of going into
the common equity market through the middle of next year, the rest of this year and the middle of next year. And
beyond that, we will take a look at what we want to do beyond that. But again, as Steve said, just looking at this with
the kind of yield we're trading at right now, it just didn't make any sense to us to continue to have that overhang out
there on issuing common equity. And so our view is to take that off the table, and longer-term, and most importantly,
achieve on a long-term basis a cheaper cost of equity financing.
<Q - Craig K. Shere>: Okay. I'll let it go at that.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Well, I'm sorry we can't share more with you but my General Counsel is sitting across the
table from me [indiscernible] (01:17:08). So we just can't say any more under applicable rules without being – we don't
want to be front running anything. So as Steve said, you'll know I think soon enough and we'll go from there.
<Q - Craig K. Shere>: Okay. And did I miss any comments about potential workaround for Palmetto given the
Georgia decision in May?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: I can touch on it briefly. Just that we continue to make progress on that project. We believe it
has real value to Georgia and Florida consumers and we have customers for it signed up. And so we are pursuing our
appeal of the Georgia DOT decision. We believe we've demonstrated the need that our customers certainly have by
having signed up the contracts that they did. And so we continue to make progress on it and continue to pursue it and
believe we'll get it done.
<Q - Craig K. Shere>: Okay. And that's helpful. It's understandable that the EOR investment is coming down and
some of the CO2. My question with SACROC kind of I think the lowest level now since third quarter 2014, we had a
little drop this quarter. I mean if this goes on for what have you, another three to six quarters and then energy prices
come back a bit, it makes more sense to make investment. Does the delay in ongoing investment impact the ability to
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 19 of 23
get value for the same dollar out of the field?
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: I'll ask Jesse to answer that, our CO2 President.
<A - Jesse Arenivas>: I think the reduction in SACROC is a performance issue, not an economic issue. We'll continue
with in current prices to develop the field. We have a temporary lull in production based on a area in the field that we
are moving throughout the field to improve production. So we're not pulling back on existing CO2 EOR in SACROC
or Yates or either field at this point. They are all economic with the current market prices.
<A - Steven J. Kean>: And we're not slowing down but slowing down wouldn't leave oil – so we couldn't go back and
recover.
<A - Jesse Arenivas>: And it can always be recovered.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: I think it's important to put this in perspective that we expect for the year – Jesse, correct
me if I'm wrong, to set all-time records for oil and NGL production at SACROC.
<A - Jesse Arenivas>: That's correct.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: So it's a positive story in our view, not a negative story at all. But where we've cut back –
and Steve has made this point in spades I think if we were to cut back is we were getting ready to ramp up significantly
to supply more CO2 to the market to our third-party customers. And as prices of the commodity of the crude oil went
down so much, we're still maintaining where we were in terms of demand for CO2 but we did not need to ramp up as
quickly and that's mostly where the capital reductions in the CO2 segment have come from.
<Q - Craig K. Shere>: And while we're on the topic, I think the press release gave the very first disclosure for the [ph]
early rise (01:20:31) investment. I think that was kind of alluded to as potentially being big long-term in your last
Analyst Day.
I understand that there's a major hurdle given where commodity prices are right now. But given the early indications of
this, are we on track to get anywhere close to kind of stimulation that you were hoping for. If we had $60 oil prices
again, could this be as big as was discussed previously?
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Jesse?
<A - Jesse Arenivas>: Yeah. We still maintain a positive outlook. The volume metrics, all the early indications are
positive. The processing rate's a little slower but we're implementing a plan to speed that up. Phase II at this point
seems economic or is economic. Going forward into Phase III and IV as we start putting in more facilities, the
processing that will play into that. So we still believe that, that's a viable project long term.
<Q - Craig K. Shere>: Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Becca Followill with U.S. Capital Advisors. Your line is open.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Hi, Becca, how are you?
<Q - Becca Followill>: I'm good. Thank you. On Trans Mountain, can you talk a little bit about whether or not with
the push-outs, the cost has changed and is there any kind of provision in there for the customers that it has to be done
by a certain time or they have an out in their contract?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: Well, we have Ian Anderson, the President of Kinder Morgan Canada here and he was waiting
for the question. So...
<A - Ian D. Anderson>: Sure. Thanks. You made my trip down worthwhile.
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 20 of 23
<Q - Becca Followill>: I'm so happy.
<A - Ian D. Anderson>: Let me answer it this way, as far as the costs go, we've been reporting USD 5.4 billion for the
project for a number of quarters now and that is still a good forecast. The project was originally filed with the regulator
as a CAD 5.4 billion project. So if you convert the USD 5.4 billion that's about CAD 6.8 billion today. And a few
things have driven that, both some scope changes to the project, foreign exchange on non-Canadian sourced goods and
materials as well as the impact of the delay. So if you add those three factors together, the project is currently sitting at
about a CAD 6.8 billion forecast or about the USD 5.4 billion that we have been reporting.
<Q - Becca Followill>: Okay, thanks.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: I think, Becca, it's fair to add that both from the standpoint of cost parameters and timing
parameters, we are well within the bounds of our contracts with our customers...
<A - Ian D. Anderson>: Yes, that's right. The contracts with our customers contemplate 6.8 billion cap to the project
under which they've got no ability to de-contract their commitments, so we're at that now and we're not hearing any
pushback from shippers at this point in terms of their contractual commitments.
As far as the timing goes, the only timing out that there is it that we don't have a regulatory decision and approval by
the end of 2017. We'll be well within that. The regulator is going to issue their decision, as Steve pointed out, in May of
2016. So we're well within the bounds of all the contract commitments we have both from a cost standpoint and a
timing standpoint.
<Q - Becca Followill>: That's very helpful, Ian. Thank you. But just to clarify, so if it does go over the 6.8 billion cap
that provides the out for some of the customers?
<A - Ian D. Anderson>: If we present a toll to our customers that is reflective of a cost in excess of 6.8 billion that
gives them the out.
<Q - Becca Followill>: Okay. Thank you.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: That's an important distinction.
<Q - Becca Followill>: Okay. Thank you. And then on your Northeast pipelines, not so much the Northeast Direct but
some of the other pipelines that are more producer driven – I guess some of the producers now have a lot of excess [ph]
FT (01:24:44). Any pushback, like some of the customers to say, well, I signed up for that contract but I don't really
need it now and can you let me get out of it, or can we defer the timing of it?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: No, I think we're seeing incremental interest for capacity declining to some extent in some
areas. But clearly I think the commitments they've made, the date, they're standing behind and not seeing any issues in
that regard.
<Q - Becca Followill>: But no producers have approached you to maybe push things out?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: Not to this point. No.
<Q - Becca Followill>: Okay. And then finally on Elba. What is the timing for an FID on that?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: It's already FID-ed.
<Q - Becca Followill>: It is FID-ed?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: Yes.
<Q - Becca Followill>: So as soon as you get the final FERC approval, it's good to go?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: It starts shoveling dirt, yes.
<Q - Becca Followill>: Okay. Perfect. Thank you, guys.
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 21 of 23
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Noah Lerner with Hartz Capital. Your line is open.
<Q - Noah Lerner>: Good afternoon, or maybe I should say good evening, everyone. Quick question, a little bit out in
left field. I was just curious on Trans Mountain, any other ideas you have brewing up there in Canada; with this week's
election how that might impact your thinking or your operations up there knowing that you have a 100% controlled
government now by the Liberal party up there?
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: I'll let Ian answer that.
<A - Ian D. Anderson>: I'm wearing my Liberal red tie. It's too early to speculate on what a Liberal governmental is
going to mean for us. We're going to continue to focus on the NED process that we're involved in and all the
requirements of that while we continue our project planning and preparation.
We'll certainly be briefing the Liberal government in due course on the project and the progress we've made. But I don't
yet have any comment on what a Liberal government may do to us with respect to the project. We'll just keep working
very hard to keep them informed and plan to execute the project as soon as we get approval.
<Q - Noah Lerner>: Great. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from John Edwards with Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Hi, John. How are you?
<Q - John Edwards>: Doing well, Rich. Thanks. Just if I could, on the dividend growth outlook I know in the past
you've indicated kind of a fill-in amount of capital expenditures to meet the longer-term objective. And if memory
serves me, I think it was something like – I want to say 6% – it had been like a 10% then it came down. And with the
revised kind of growth range, how should we be thinking about what kind of fill-in capital projects would be needed to
meet, I guess, the new objectives?
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: I think you should think we're same capital objectives that we've always had, John. And as
Steve said earlier, we're on track to do that with our backlog and what we've already brought in service. If you look at
what our original goals were for Project Fusion, we're tracking that pretty well. It's the commodity price that has been
the negative in the Project Fusion assumptions. So I don't think you would read anything into this that our capital
program would change and we're still looking to continue to grow.
<Q - John Edwards>: Okay. And so then, so longer term should we be thinking about a range, 6% to 10% longer-term
range or kind of paralleling 2016. Is that correct?
<A - Kimberly Allen Dang>: Okay. Let me, I'm...
<Q - John Edwards>: Sorry, Kim. I know you've gone over it a bunch of times but just to be clear.
<A - Kimberly Allen Dang>: Yes, I'm going to try one more time.
<Q - John Edwards>: Okay.
<A - Kimberly Allen Dang>: So 2016, we haven't gone through our budget yet. But we're giving ourselves a range
because we haven't been through the budget. There's a fair amount of uncertainty. We know people are going to want
an update today.
Over the longer term, what we think, what I said earlier is when we did Fusion, we thought we could grow at 10% per
year. We had a substantial excess coverage. What this energy market has done is it has essentially depleted that excess
coverage. And so now, we think that we probably can grow at 10% longer term but that the coverage would be very
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 22 of 23
tight and could be negative in some years.
And so what we're saying is that as we go forward, we are going to have to look at what our coverage should be and
what the dividend should be given that the coverage has been depleted. But the underlying business can still achieve the
10% growth. That's why Rich is saying the capital assumptions have not changed, the underlying assumptions in terms
of the capital spend have not changed. Now some of the volumes have deteriorated, the oil price has deteriorated and
that's what's driven the depletion in coverage.
<Q - John Edwards>: Okay. That's very helpful. And then just lastly and I hate to keep coming back to this but just in
terms of modeling the alternative financing. Should we be thinking about this as equity, as some kind of preferreds,
some kind of debt, or can you not to comment at all?
<A - Kimberly Allen Dang>: We can't comment at this time.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: It is equity. We have said that.
<Q - John Edwards>: Okay. All right. And then lastly on Trans Mountain, just to follow-up Becca's question. There's
only a cost out, there's not a timing out. Is that correct?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: What I said is there is a timing out if we don't have our certificate from the Federal government
and the regulator by the end of 2017.
<Q - John Edwards>: Okay, great. Thank you. That's all I had. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Next question comes from Corey Goldman with Jefferies. Your line is open.
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Good afternoon.
<Q - Corey Benjamin Goldman>: Thank you. Good afternoon. How is it going?
<A - Richard D. Kinder>: Good.
<Q - Corey Benjamin Goldman>: Just a quick follow-up on Craig's question earlier about Palmetto. I think, Steve,
last quarter you talked about how the DOT approval was not essential. Is that still the case, or you kind of go to the
appeal process and take it from there.
<A - Steven J. Kean>: It's true that it is not a requirement that we have a certificate of public convenience and
necessity from the Georgia DOT but our appeal is about considering to pursue that.
<Q - Corey Benjamin Goldman>: Got it. And then, Kim, is there an update to the hedges on the CO2 side that we can
get?
<A - Kimberly Allen Dang>: Sure. On 2016, we're about 63% hedged at $72 a barrel. 2017 is about 58% at $73 a
barrel. 2018 is 45% at $75 a barrel and 2019 is 24% at $66 a barrel.
<Q - Corey Benjamin Goldman>: Got it. That's really helpful. And then just the last one for me. It looks like Natural
Gas Pipelines is trending a little bit above what you guys were expecting and it sounds like a portion of that is
attributable to Hiland. Can you kind of talk about how the ramp is going there and how that's gauging versus your
initial expectations when you first closed in February?
<A - Steven J. Kean>: Yes. I think it is probably – it's very close but probably just slightly under what we had
anticipated for this current year. Now when we put our projections together for Hiland, we gave – the salary projections
have pretty good haircut and we didn't assume oil price recovery really at this year or next. And so we gave ourselves
some pretty good running room there. I think probably a little bit under on the revenue side and a little better on the
cost side. That includes just operating costs, maintenance capital and financing costs. We looked at it a couple of
Company Name: Kinder Morgan Inc
Company Ticker: KMI US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 23 of 23
months ago when we were just a little bit over. And I think we're now just a little bit under.
<Q - Corey Benjamin Goldman>: Great. That's really helpful. Thanks guys.
Operator
Thank you. At this time, we no longer have any questions on queue. I would now like to turn the call back...
Richard D. Kinder
Well, thank you everybody for bearing with us for an hour and a half of informative questions. And thank you and have
a good evening.
Operator
Thank you. So that concludes today's conference call. Thank you all for participating. You may now disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.