Company Name: JPMorgan
Company Ticker: JPM US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 15
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Marianne Lake
• Jamie Dimon
Other Participants
• Glenn Paul Schorr
• Kenneth M. Usdin
• Mike L. Mayo
• John E. McDonald
• Elizabeth Lynn Graseck
• James F. Mitchell
• Erika P. Najarian
• Matthew H. Burnell
• Matthew Derek O'Connor
• Steven J. Chubak
• Gerard S. Cassidy
• Christopher M. Kotowski
• Paul J. Miller
• Eric Wasserstrom
• Brennan McHugh Hawken
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning (sic) [evening] (00:05), ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's Third Quarter 2015
earnings call. This call is being recorded. Your line will be muted for the duration of the call. We will now go live to
the presentation. Please stand by.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO, Jamie Dimon; and Chief
Financial Officer, Marianne Lake. Ms. Lake, please go ahead.
Marianne Lake
Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us. I'm going to take you through the earnings
presentation, which is available on our website. Please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at
the back of the presentation.
Starting on page one, the firm reported net income of $6.8 billion, EPS of $1.68, and return on tangible common equity
of 15% on $23.5 billion of revenue. If you exclude tax adjustments, legal expense, and net reserve releases, our
adjusted performance was $1.32 a share, with a 12% return on tangible common equity. And we've only adjusted for
these three items because other small items that might be considered non-core netted to zero.
Company Name: JPMorgan
Company Ticker: JPM US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 15
Underlying results were somewhat mixed on the back of market conditions. The Consumer business had strong
performance with loan growth across products, driving overall firm-wide core loan growth of 15%.
In the Corporate and Investment Bank, we saw outperformance in Investment Banking revenue and solid trading
performance. Commercial Banking revenue was down, driven by lower IB revenues in a declining market. And Asset
Management revenues reflected lower market levels driving weaker client sentiment and transactional revenues.
There were two significant items this quarter; first, tax benefits of $2.2 billion, the size of which speaks to the
complexity of tax matters during the financial crisis. We took an appropriately prudent position in our tax reserves, and
now we've reached resolution on those matters. The majority of this is in Corporate, with a portion in the CIB. The
second item is firm-wide legal expense of $1 billion after tax relating to a range of matters, but including the recently
announced CDS settlement.
Also reflected in our results is a net reserve release of $281 million pre-tax, which reflects a little less than $600 million
of consumer reserve releases as favorable credit trends continue; offset by a build of a little over $300 million in
wholesale, approximately $160 million of which is additional reserves associated with the oil and gas sector, given
expectations that energy prices will remain lower for longer.
Skipping over page two and turning on to page three and our balance sheet, we continued to make progress against our
capital targets. And as expected, advanced and standardized fully phased-in CET1 ratios are in line with each other at
11.4% this quarter. Also, we continue to expect the standardized ratio will be our floor from here, and the improvement
to both ratios was driven by net capital generation.
We also built Tier 1 and total capital, adding $1.2 billion of preferred stock and $1.5 billion of subordinated debt this
quarter. We returned $2.7 billion of net capital to shareholders, including $1 billion of net repurchases and dividends of
$0.44 a share. Firm and Bank SLR were at 6.3% and 6.5%, respectively, with the increase driven almost equally by
capital generation and a reduction in average assets.
While we're on the balance sheet, you can see on the callouts on the page that on a spot basis, our balance sheet is down
$160 billion year-to-date and an incremental $32 billion this quarter, as we reduced non-operating deposits by over
$150 billion, exceeding our commitment. Total deposits are only down $90 billion, reflecting growth in more stable
balances, particularly consumer.
Finally with respect to GSIB, we estimate that today we are squarely in the 4% bucket given actions taken and final
U.S. rules as compared to 4.5% at the beginning of the year.
Now let's turn to page four and Consumer & Community Banking. The combined Consumer businesses generated $2.6
billion of net income and an ROE of 20%. Revenue of $10.9 billion was down 4% year-on-year, driven by mortgage on
lower net servicing revenue. We remain on track to deliver expense reductions versus our $2 billion commitment. And
year-to-date, expenses were down around $600 million reported and over $700 million adjusted for legal expense. Our
head count is down 10,000 year-to-date and more than 40,000 since 2012.
Underlying business drivers are strong. And based on the 2015 FDIC Deposit Survey, which just came out, we grew
our deposits nearly two times the industry growth rate. Average loans are up 8%, with core loans up 23%. Our
customer base continues to expand. We added 900,000 households year-over-year, and our active mobile base is up
21%.
Moving to page five, Consumer & Business Banking, CBB generated strong results, with net income of $954 million
and an ROE of 32%. NII was down 1% quarter-on-quarter and 7% year-on-year driven by spread compression offset
by continued growth in deposits. And non-interest revenue is growing solidly, up 5% quarter-on-quarter seasonally and
5% year-on-year, on continued strong debit and investment revenue. Overall, expenses were down 3% year-on-year on
lower head count from branch efficiency.
We continued to see robust performance across key drivers. Average deposits were up 9%, and we grew deposits in all
of our top 50 MSAs and gained share in 9 of our top 10. Client assets were up 3% but down 4% quarter-on-quarter,
broadly in line with the market, and net new money was positive $3 billion for the quarter. Business Banking loan
Company Name: JPMorgan
Company Ticker: JPM US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 15
growth remained strong, with average loan balances up 6% year-on-year and originations up 4% from a strong 2014.
Next, Mortgage Banking on page six; overall net income was $602 million for the quarter. Originations of $30 billion
were up 41% from the prior year and up slightly quarter-on-quarter, as we benefited from the strong pipeline and
continued improvement in the purchase market. We continued to add high-quality loans to our balance sheet totaling
$19 billion this quarter.
Total revenue decreased sequentially, primarily driven by lower net servicing revenue on lower MSR risk management.
We expect non-interest revenue to be down around $250 million year-over-year in the fourth quarter. Expenses of $1.1
billion were down 13% year-on-year despite higher volumes, as we continued to manage down our costs.
On credit, we released $575 million of reserves, including $200 million in the non-credit-impaired portfolio and $375
million in the purchased credit-impaired portfolio, reflecting an improvement in both actual and expected delinquencies
and a sustained improvement in home prices.
Finally, our net charge-offs were $41 million and approximately $60 million normalized, and this is a reasonable
estimate for the near term.
Moving on to page seven, Card, Commerce Solutions & Auto. Overall, net income of $1.1 billion with an ROE of 22%,
and revenue of $4.8 billion was up 2% year-on-year on higher operating lease income in auto, as well as Card revenue
up slightly, reflecting higher NII on volume, spread and lower interest reversals, offset by the impact of changes to
some of our co-brand partnerships.
On our partners, we were thrilled to announce the renewal of two of our key partners, United Airlines and Southwest
Airlines. We look forward to continued investment and growth in these important relationships. And while we repriced
to the current competitive markets, our ROE target for the Card business in total remains unchanged. However, expect
the revenue rate for the fourth quarter to be 11.75% plus or minus.
Expense was $2.2 billion, up 8% year-on-year, driven by higher auto lease depreciation and higher marketing spend.
On drivers, we continued to see strong year-over-year growth in volumes and transactions across our businesses. In
Card, core loan growth was 3%. Sales growth was 6%. Commerce Solutions volumes were up 11%, driven by
continued strong spend from existing clients, but also from the addition of new merchants.
Lastly in Auto, results continued to reflect steady growth in new vehicle sales and stable used car values. We saw
average loan and lease balances up 9%, and the pipeline is good.
Finally on credit, the net charge-off rate for the quarter was 241 basis points, and we expect net charge-offs of around
250 basis points over the medium term.
Turning to page eight on the Corporate & Investment Bank, CIB reported net income of $1.5 billion on revenue of $8.2
billion, and an ROE of 13% adjusted for legal, taxes, and reserves. In Banking, it was a strong quarter with IB revenue
of $1.5 billion, up 5% year-on-year. We continue to rank number one in global IB fees and ranked number one in North
America and EMEA. It was another outstanding quarter for advisory, up 22%. We grew wallet share by 150 basis
points year-over-year, maintaining our number two ranking.
Equity underwriting fees were down 35%, generally in line with the market, but from a particularly strong prior year.
This quarter we ranked number one both in North America and EMEA. Debt underwriting was up 17%, driven by
higher non-investment-grade fees. We maintained our number one ranking, gaining 30 basis points of share. However,
expect DCM fees to be down year-over-year given the current pipeline. Treasury Services revenue was flat quarter on
quarter but down 4% year-on-year on lower deposit spreads, with underlying transaction volumes remaining stable.
Moving on to Markets, revenue of $4.3 billion was down 6% adjusted for business simplification, with mixed results in
fixed income, but another strong performance in equities. Fixed income revenue was $2.9 billion, down 11% adjusted.
In macro products, we saw strong performance in currencies and emerging markets, driven by higher activity on the
back of market volatility in Asia and Brazil. Rates was down slightly, given the particularly strong September of last
Company Name: JPMorgan
Company Ticker: JPM US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 15
year. And commodities was down on low levels of client activity, again, compared to a strong prior year.
It was a slow quarter in credit with lower volumes, as clients were on the sidelines given the challenging market
conditions. Equity markets had another strong quarter, with revenues of $1.4 billion, up 9% year-on-year, driven by
reasonably broad strength across products and regions, with good performance in cash, but particular strength in Asia
and derivatives.
Securities Services revenue was $915 million versus guidance of $950 million, given depressed market levels which
impacted both revenues and assets under custody, with emerging markets, which is one of our more profitable
segments, being hit particularly hard. If markets remain at these levels, fourth quarter revenues will also be lower than
previous guidance. On credit, we saw a reserve build of $232 million, including $128 million for oil and gas.
Finally on to expenses, total expense was up 2% year-on-year at $6.1 billion. Compensation expense was down 13%,
with a comp-to-revenue ratio of 30% in the quarter. And non-compensation expense was up 14%, driven by higher
legal expense, partially offset as we realized the expense benefits of business simplification.
Moving on to Commercial Banking and page nine, Commercial Banking generated net income of $518 million on
revenue of $1.6 billion and an ROE of 14%. Revenue was down 5% quarter on quarter, driven by lower Investment
Banking revenue, as we saw fewer large transactions in the quarter. However, the pipeline for the fourth quarter is
solid, and we still expect record gross IB revenues this year, exceeding $2 billion. Expenses of $719 million were in
line with guidance. Loan balances were a record at $162 billion, up 13% year-on-year and 2% quarter on quarter,
driven by continued outperformance in commercial real estate, where quarter-on-quarter growth of 4% exceeded the
industry across both multi-family and real estate banking.
C&I loans were flat, in line with the industry. Mature markets were relatively flat, but we saw growth in our expansion
markets, up 4% quarter-on-quarter. Credit performance of the portfolio remained strong, with no net charge-offs. And
an $84 million increase in reserves included a modest build for oil and gas.
Overall, while results were mixed this quarter, the underlying fundamentals of the Commercial Bank remain strong.
Pipelines are trending higher in C&I and remain robust in commercial real estate. Our expansion market loan balances
are up 20% year-on-year. Calling activity is up substantially across client segments, and we've added around 400 new
middle market relationships this year.
Moving on to page 10 and Asset Management, net income was $475 million with a 28% pre-tax margin and 20% ROE.
Revenue of $2.9 billion was down 5% year-on-year, driven by lower markets, which also drove lower transactional
revenue; as well as the sale of Retirement Planning Services in 2014, which drove $70 million of the year-over-year
decline.
Looking forward to the fourth quarter, expect revenues to show normal seasonality from this low base assuming current
market levels. Expenses were relatively flat, and AUM of $1.7 trillion and client assets of $2.3 trillion held up well and
were relatively flat year-on-year, with negative markets and outflows driving a 4% sequential decline.
We were not immune to the impact of interest rate uncertainty in equity markets. And while we did experience overall
modest net outflows, we had positive flows in our less market sensitive multi-asset class and alternative platforms.
In Banking, we had record loan balances of $109 billion, up 7% year-on-year, driven by mortgage which was up 19%.
And lastly, we continue to report strong investment performance, with 81% of mutual fund AUMs ranked in the first or
second quartiles over five years.
Turning to page 11 and Corporate, Treasury and CIO results for the quarter were very close to home. Other Corporate
reported net income of $1.8 billion, driven by tax benefits. And finally, firm-wide NIM was up seven basis points
quarter on quarter, given the mix shift away from cash and securities towards higher loan balances and on an overall
smaller balance sheet. Loans are the primary driver of the nearly $250 million improvement in NII. And given market
implieds, NIM and NII should be relatively flat in the fourth quarter. Finally, our loan-to-deposit ratio improved eight
percentage points year to date to 64%.
Company Name: JPMorgan
Company Ticker: JPM US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 15
Turning to page 12 and moving on to the fourth quarter outlook, just a few items to call out. First, you'll see we updated
our adjusted expense target to $56.5 billion plus or minus for the full year. We did better than our previous guidance
and would equate to the fourth quarter adjusted expense being relatively flat to the third. We're expecting core loan
growth of 15% plus or minus to continue in the fourth quarter.
And finally, on Markets revenue, starting with business simplification, which will drive a 2% decline year-on-year, in
addition we expect to see normal seasonal declines in the fourth quarter versus the third. And looking back over the last
three years, that decline has been on average around 15%. And so far in October, across asset classes, the markets are
pretty quiet. Obviously, we're only two weeks into the quarter and it's too early to give specific guidance. But based on
those facts alone, analyst estimates appear high.
Wrapping up, overall the company performed quite well against a backdrop of interest rate uncertainty and volatile
markets. We continue to invest in our businesses, and our underlying drivers are growing strongly and we're gaining
share. And we have more than successfully delivered against each of our capital, balance sheet, and expense targets.
And just before I finish, on one of those investments we're making, I want to update you on the progress we're making
on our Payments strategy. We continue to capitalize on our leadership position in Payments. We have unparalleled
assets in our issuing scale. We have the largest wholly-owned merchant acquirer, our own closed-loop network in
ChaseNet, and now a digital wallet in ChasePay, which will be launched more broadly this year.
The beauty of this is that we're able to bundle all of these capabilities together to provide better pricing and experiences
for merchants, including access to data as well as a better and more relevant experience for customers. We expect to
process more than $50 billion of Chase card volumes over ChaseNet in 2016. And Gordon [Smith] will share more
details at Money20/20.
With that, operator, please open up the line to Q&A.
Q&A
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI.
<Q - Glenn Paul Schorr>: Hi, thanks very much. So I'm curious, the capital markets related commentary, I get there
could be a hangover effect into fourth quarter, and I'm guessing that's the primary driver behind your analyst estimates
appear high on fourth quarter. But can we talk about what you're actually seeing in terms of where the financing
markets are maybe drawing the line, meaning are the deals that underwriting you expect to fall off in the fourth quarter
based on your pipeline, is that a function of timing that you think could come back next year? Are these marginal deals
where markets are drawing the line? I'm trying to get at...
<A - Marianne Lake>: Yes.
<Q - Glenn Paul Schorr>: ...the ultimate question of is this the first time that FICC could actually grow in 2016 just
because of the beat-down it took in the back half of this year?
<A - Marianne Lake>: So there are a couple of different questions in there, and maybe I'll try and separate them. My
comments about the seasonality in the fourth quarter were most particularly towards Markets revenues and less so
towards the IB revenue space. With IB revenues, it's a mix story. So talking now about the sort of banking revenues
rather than the Markets revenue, so the pipeline for M&A remains very constructive and really pretty good. So we're
expecting to continue to have strength in M&A in the fourth quarter.
With ECM, you saw obviously a pretty sharp falloff in activity in the third quarter. We have seen the pipeline in ECM
– to the degree that that shows you visibility into the fourth quarter, which is somewhat limited, we have seen that build
up. And so there is the possibility that we'll be able to pull through some of that into the fourth quarter, but that will
Company Name: JPMorgan
Company Ticker: JPM US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 15
depend upon how the markets behave.
With respect to DCM, our sort of guidance there was that a commentary really mainly to the strength of the fourth
quarter last year, and on a relative basis, the pipeline is down. And it's really to do with normal refinances are slowing
and the maturity wall is smaller, but it's still healthy. It's just not going to be at the same levels that we saw last year.
<Q - Glenn Paul Schorr>: Maybe just to follow up in FICC in general, I know none of us have a crystal ball. But the
slowdown in activity that we see, some of its clients sitting on hands. Maybe you could separate that between any
providing of liquidity and marks along the way because we did see a really wide credit spread widening in the quarter.
<A - Marianne Lake>: Yeah, I mean, look, the situation for us in Markets was one where there was volatility,
regardless of how you want to characterize it, and people were acting – our clients were acting on the back of that, we
were able to capitalize on that flow. We were able to intermediate for our clients, put our capital at risk, make some
money. And so we did pretty well where there was volatility. And where there wasn't, it was more about – to your point
– more about low levels of activity, people on the sidelines. So it was just tougher to make money because less was
happening rather than anything else more significant than that. But so far in the fourth quarter, we're two weeks in. It's
too early to say, but there's not been a tremendous change in the landscape.
Operator
Your next question is from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
<Q - Kenneth M. Usdin>: Thanks. Marianne, can you talk a little bit more about the Card business and try to help us
understand? The Card revenue pressure that we saw this quarter into the fourth quarter, how much of that is the NII
side of things and how much of that is kind of the partner repricing? And how far past the fourth quarter do those resets
continue before growth can overcome it?
<A - Marianne Lake>: Yeah. So looking at the revenue rate, the guidance, so remember, our guidance previously had
been you should expect our revenue rate to be at the low end of the 12%,12.5% range.
The most important thing we want you to take away from talking about our co-brand partners is that we feel great about
having signed up United Airlines and Southwest Airlines and partnering with them again for the medium term. And the
economics of those deals on a stand-alone basis are still really very good, but the co-brand space is very competitive.
And when any of those contracts are going to be renegotiated at this point, they're going to be renegotiated to
competitive levels. And so it's really the fact that we're seeing that. It's going to come through in our revenue rate in the
fourth quarter, which is going to push it down to below 12%. And it doesn't change the fact that the ROE target for the
business is still 20%, and that the economics of those partnerships are still good. And remember this...
<Q - Kenneth M. Usdin>: Okay.
<A - Jamie Dimon>: Just give him the numbers. It's $200 million a quarter for four quarters until it laps.
<Q - Kenneth M. Usdin>: Got it, okay. And then second question just on – in this tough revenue environment, first of
all, can you just give us a quick update on the progress on the expense plans? And then does anything change given
how tough this revenue environment has changed as far as either accelerating or digging in again? I know your prior
comments have focused on, obviously, always needing to invest, but in terms of just your focus as you think about next
year and building the expense budget against the environment that we're seeing.
<A - Marianne Lake>: Yeah. So I would say, first of all, we gave some expense goals in Investor Day for both the
Consumer businesses as well as for the CIB. And those were I think pretty sizable goals, $2 billion in 2017 versus 2014
for the Consumer businesses and $2.8 billion in 2017 versus 2014 for the CIB. And we are working through that. We
are on track in both of them. I think I said earlier that adjusted, the Consumer businesses in the three quarters so far are
$700 million down year-over-year in expenses. So against the $2 billion target, we're certainly getting there.
Company Name: JPMorgan
Company Ticker: JPM US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 15
And on the CIB, we expected 2015 to be mainly about forcing out those business simplification expenses, and we've
essentially done that, too. So we're on track. We're pushing hard. We still have work to do. We are always going to be
diligent on our expenses. And generally speaking, at Investor Day, we also said we're going to be on or down, which is
actually pushing hard to keep them down, but not at the expense of good investments in the business.
So obviously, we are going to respond appropriately to the revenue pressure, but not overreact.
<A - Jamie Dimon>: And I've spoken my whole life about good expenses and bad expenses. Bad expenses are waste,
things you don't need. You don't have trade-through processing, things like that. But we want certain expenses to go up.
If we find marketing opportunities in Card, we're going to spend it. If the Investment Bank does better, the comp
accruals are going to go up. So that's how we run the company. That's not ever going to change.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: Hi. Just to follow up to that last question, so of the total $4.8 billion of expense savings, how
much have you achieved? And if you're on track, why did the adjusted overhead ratio go backwards at 60% in the third
quarter versus 58% in the second and 59% last year?
<A - Marianne Lake>: So, Mike, thanks for that. So $700 million, if you adjust for legal expenses in the Consumer
businesses year to date, we'll do some more in fourth quarter. And year to date on business simplification, which I think
in total was about $1.5 billion, we've done $1.3 billion. So in total, that's $2 billion so far, obviously, more work to do
in 2016. With respect to the adjusted overhead ratio, it speaks a bit more to seasonality of revenues than anything else.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: All right, and one follow-up. Clearly, it's due to revenues. So the question, Jamie, if you could,
answer this, a simple yes-or-no question. Is the economy getting stronger or weaker? And the reason I ask that, the jobs
report from a couple weeks ago seems to imply the economy is getting softer. Yet, your loan growth actually – your
core loan growth accelerated, and you're guiding for faster loan growth in the fourth quarter. So is there noise in that
loan growth figure? Or is the economy, based on what you're seeing, getting stronger, and the jobs number is
misleading?
<A - Jamie Dimon>: That's not a yes or no one.
<A - Marianne Lake>: I'll start and then Jamie you can say yes or no at the end...
<A - Jamie Dimon>: Go ahead.
<A - Marianne Lake>: ...you can yes or no at the end. So, Mike, we would say that the U.S. economy is doing pretty
well. We're seeing good demand for loans in the consumer space and reasonably good sentiment in the business
banking space, and our core loan growth numbers do show that. So there's nothing particularly funky in the loan growth
numbers. We do our very best to show them in the right light.
I would take a slightly different perspective on the jobs report on the non-farm payrolls. And not to overthink it, but
while I know it was somewhat lower than people were expecting or possibly hoping for, it's still, at around 140,000,
was almost two times what would be required to have stable unemployment. So it's only one report too. You can't
overreact to it. So it's not that we're seeing anything that's causing us any concern, and our outlook for the fourth
quarter is pretty solid, I think. Jamie, anything?
<A - Jamie Dimon>: Nothing to add.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Bernstein.
Company Name: JPMorgan
Company Ticker: JPM US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 15
<Q - John E. McDonald>: Hi, Marianne. You saw some very good improvement in the GSIB surcharge from the
4.5% to 4%. It probably came a little faster than some of us expected. Do you have good momentum there, to do more
there? And how are you thinking about the tradeoff, the cost/benefit tradeoff of pushing further down on that GSIB
bucket?
<A - Marianne Lake>: So we did better than we had targeted for our non-op deposits. We worked very, very hard, as
we told you we would, on derivative notionals, compression also on Level 3 assets. It is absolutely the case, not to
diminish the amount of what we've done and the progress we've made, that we obviously went after the most impactful
– least impactful to the client franchise, most impactful to the ratio with the less revenue give up first. And so we made
great progress. It becomes increasingly – not exponentially, but increasingly more difficult for every next basis point.
That's not to say, by the way, that we aren't continuing to work very hard at it and optimize and that we won't push
further, but we're not at a place right now where we're going to target anything structurally below this except for over
the longer term just continuing to work through it. And our overall capital target, we're at 11.4% now. Our overall
capital target still in the short to medium term is still 12%.
<Q - John E. McDonald>: Okay, thank you.
<A - Jamie Dimon>: I just want to add. In the new world, we have to obviously monitor and push down to all the
business levels, GSIB, CCAR, Basel, LCR, and SLR, and we want to optimize all of them. So we're only living with
this for a couple years now as we embed it in our systems, a little bit better way to track it and monitor it. Over time, I
would expect that GSIB will come down a little bit. It only comes down in lumps. You've got to make a big difference
to go from 4% to 3.5%. But when I say over time, I'm talking about years. I'm not talking about anything you'd see this
quarter. We're very comfortable where we are today. But over years, yes, you might change some of your business
strategies, but I think it's a better thing not to be an outlier in GSIB.
Operator
Your next question is from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
<Q - Elizabeth Lynn Graseck>: Hi, thanks, so just a question on the capital getting to 4% now with a goal over time
to get to something lower, 3.5% – 3%. Does it also give you more room for capital return requests next year, Jamie?
<A - Jamie Dimon>: It has nothing to do with next year, Betsy. When I say over time, it happens that JPMorgan built
a global corporate Investment Bank, 70% of it is financial institution, 30% corporate. We easily could have been built
the other way around due to what all of you are focused on over time. So when I say over time, it might be quite easy
for us to say that over five to six years, let's focus more on corporates and less on financials, and that will affect your
GSIB fairly substantially. So that's what I'm talking about. It's nothing to do with CCAR for next year or anything like
that.
<Q - Elizabeth Lynn Graseck>: Okay.
<A - Marianne Lake>: A couple of really small points on CCAR for next year, for what it's worth, is we were
constrained in CCAR by leverage. We have issued $6 billion of preferreds in the year. We are reacting to try and make
sure that we are managing our binding constraints or our most binding constraint, so we're working on that. The other
thing to note is that we're at 11.4% as we sit here now, so we're not gliding a long way from where we need to get to.
And both of those things together with obviously our profitability should mean that we have incremental opportunity.
But our range is 65% to 75%, and we hope to be in that range.
<Q - Elizabeth Lynn Graseck>: Okay. And then just on TLAC, I know we're still waiting for the Fed decision, but we
did get FSA recently. Anything in there that you can respond to as to how you're prepared for TLAC?
<A - Marianne Lake>: So just a couple of things. First of all, I think the FSB thing was a leak, so it's as good as it is. I
will tell you that the news on structured notes was not strongly positive but we hadn't banked on it being, so not entirely
pleasing but not disappointing relative to our models and expectations. Other things to pay attention to anyway are
Company Name: JPMorgan
Company Ticker: JPM US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 15
there's no change to internal TLAC assumptions. The clean holding company rule is one that we're watching out for.
But fundamentally – and then there was the timing. Is there going be a substantially elongated transition period? I
would call it all fairly marginal, so it hasn't changed the overall picture for us. We're at around 16%, and we'll figure
out the FSB proposal that leaked out wasn't shockingly different, and we'll see how the Fed responds.
Operator
Your next question is from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
<Q - James F. Mitchell>: Hi, good afternoon, just maybe a question on NII and NIM. I think, Marianne, you said it
would be relatively flat in the fourth quarter, yet you're still expecting some pretty strong loan growth. I just want to, if
you can, maybe discuss why you think it would remain flat in that scenario. And maybe a bit longer term in an
environment where we're looking at lower for longer potentially in the rates, how do we think about the NIM a little bit
over the immediate term?
<A - Marianne Lake>: Okay, so with respect to the fourth quarter, we are expecting our loans to grow an overall
net-net rotation out of cash and securities to loans would be supportive of NII. But remember, the biggest boost to our
NIM was associated – or one of the big boosts to our NIM was associated with changing the mix, reducing our overall
cash balances, and so there were a few things going on.
<Q - James F. Mitchell>: Yes, sure.
<A - Marianne Lake>: The outlook for the fourth quarter being relatively flat was associated with market implied
rates which are relatively flat. So in the law of big numbers, that's plus or minus a few basis points is what we're
expecting.
With respect to looking out to 2016, obviously we don't know what's going to happen with the rate curve. If rates stay
very flat, we should still have upward pressure on our NII associated with the change in mix of our balance sheet. So
the fact that we've got a smaller interest earning by asset base and more loans and less cash and less securities should
be supported, even on flat rates. We don't know when rates will rise, but if market implies are followed or if the Fed
dots are anything like realistic, then that will be even more constructive. And remember, in the first year we get the
biggest benefit from short-end rates and the first 50 basis points of them.
<Q - James F. Mitchell>: Great. I was hoping you would know when rates go up, but thanks.
<A - Marianne Lake>: No, unfortunately not.
<Q - James F. Mitchell>: Thanks.
Operator
Your next question is from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
<Q - Erika P. Najarian>: Yes, good afternoon. My question is on the credit outlook. The Consumer reserve release
has continued to offset the Wholesale reserve build, and I'm just wondering. How should we think about how much is
left on the Consumer side over the next several quarters, especially given the 23% loan growth that we saw this quarter
and your note saying that this momentum should continue?
<A - Marianne Lake>: So I would say that first of all, with respect to purchased credit-impaired, with this release we
did on the $375 million, that's our baseline expectation for that portfolio. So our baseline expectation is no material
incremental reserve. Obviously, if things improve and they're sustained, then there may be more reserve releases, but I
wouldn't try and model those.
Company Name: JPMorgan
Company Ticker: JPM US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 15
With respect to the non-credit impaired portfolio we talked about, you've seen our charge-offs at normalized 14 basis
points. Our portfolio quality is really getting quite high. We're cycling through most of the significant risks. So reserve
releases will be more modest and a little bit more periodic, and several hundred million dollars next year, maybe $300
million plus or minus, but not significantly more than that.
<Q - Erika P. Najarian>: And just my follow-up question, to follow up on Ken and Mike's question on expenses,
maybe I'll ask it another way. Over the past two quarters, your adjusted overhead ratio was 58% to 60%. You noted that
you think that net interest income could grow next year even if rates stay low. Could you potentially slide below the
58% to 60% band that you reported over the past two quarters relative to – you mentioned an efficiency target of 55%
if rates actually normalize?
<A - Marianne Lake>: Look, our efficiency target of 55% was over three years or so, and we still will be driving to
get to around that level. But it does, as you quite rightly mentioned, include not just rates rising but a fair degree of
normalization in rates. So we'll see what happens in 2016. Obviously, it's possible, but we're not going to call an
outlook on rates next year.
<Q - Erika P. Najarian>: Thanks.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
<Q - Matthew H. Burnell>: Good afternoon, thanks for taking my call. First of all, Marianne, if I could, in terms of
some of the credit numbers that you mentioned in terms of the oil and gas provisions, they seem pretty modest in the
scheme of your more than $20 billion of exposure to that industry. How are you thinking about the redetermination
process that started this quarter? And how would you guide us in terms of thinking about what the provisions could be
in the fourth quarter following the redetermination this quarter?
<A - Marianne Lake>: Okay. So, we've taken some modest reserves in the last few quarters, and our overall reserve
number, obviously, is consistent with our expectations based upon the outlook for oil prices. There was a
redetermination cycle that we reserved for in the first quarter, and so there will be another one in the fall. We've been as
forward-leaning on that as we can be. Obviously, I'm not saying that there may not be any net incremental reserve
build, but we're not expecting them to be significant. A lot of companies have tried to adjust their expense bases and
otherwise help their positions. So if energy prices stay around these levels and recover slowly, we're expecting net not
to have a material incremental reserve in the next quarter. We may see some.
<Q - Matthew H. Burnell>: Okay. And then in terms of Mortgage Banking, you noted that the production amount was
actually up quite nicely year-over-year, but the revenues in terms of production and also in servicing were a bit weaker,
certainly on a quarter-over-quarter basis, but the expenses were relatively stable on a quarter-over-quarter basis. Is there
something going on there that we might see further improvement in the expense base on the mortgage side of the
business in the fourth quarter, or are you at where you think you need to be in terms of the $1 billion to $1.1 billion a
quarter in that business?
<A - Marianne Lake>: So just let me deal, first of all, with production quarter-over-quarter revenues. Margins are
down for two principal reasons. So remember, quarter-over-quarter, at least on our closed loan volume, we were at a
consistent level. Margins are down because we moved a mix shift towards correspondent from retail towards purchase
from refi, as well as capacity in the industry, more capacity in the industry, and therefore, less constrained. So the
production quarter-over-quarter revenue is more of a margin number than anything.
With respect to year-over-year, I do want to make this clear. With respect to the guidance year-over-year that we
should expect non-interest revenue for the mortgage company in totality to be down $250 million, that brings our total
year-over-year NIR down around $1 billion, maybe just a little more, which is what we guided to at Investor Day. And
it's more off the back of lower repurchase reserve releases, lower gains on Ginnie Mae sales and XIO gains, the
non-fee-based revenues that have to do with our third-party UPB as well as runoff in the UPB. So it's consistent with
Company Name: JPMorgan
Company Ticker: JPM US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 15
our guidance. It wasn't fully reflected in everyone's models.
I think there was a third part to your question, but I have to say I've – expenses, yes, thank you. And on expenses, there
are two – so we continued to work very hard in our expense equation, both in terms of managing down the –
particularly in the servicing space, by the way, managing down the default inventory in a number of different ways, but
also investing in our operating model, so in technology to improve the production, operations, cycle, process, also in
our site strategy. So no, we are not done. We continue to work very hard at it. We have made great progress, but we
continue to work hard at it.
Operator
Your next question is from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
<Q - Matthew Derek O'Connor>: Hi. We've seen some assets change hands, and you guys have been mentioned as
the buyer for some of the other assets that are out there. Just wondering on what the ability and appetite is out there to
buy loans.
<A - Marianne Lake>: So, look, obviously, we're not going to comment on anything specific. We would be willing to
take and we do take a look at things when they come up. And if we are able to price for the risk and it's in a client
segment or an industry we like, we might be interested. But there's no – we have no special comments on it.
<Q - Matthew Derek O'Connor>: Okay.
<A - Marianne Lake>: What we're really interested in is growing our underlying core loans with our customers that
we can continue to do business with.
<Q - Matthew Derek O'Connor>: And then just separately, following up on energy, how exactly do you kind of
reevaluate the portfolio? Is it as the defaults happen, that's where there's a big boost to reserves, or you get in front of
that?
<A - Marianne Lake>: So it's not as defaults happen. I mean, it's to do – it depends on whether it's reserve-based
lending or whether it's not. But as companies are either downgraded or as they are experiencing a change in financial
condition or their borrowing base is redetermined, we will act accordingly. We try to be as forward-leaning on that as is
possible, but it's not – we don't have perfect insight until some of that information becomes clear, so that's the process.
<A - Jamie Dimon>: In the reserve-based lending, you basically take essentially current prices. You discount at a
discount rate. You assume expenses. You act – you will engineer your course on things like that, and you see if you can
make – roll over the loan at a sound – I'm going to call it 65% LTV, and we think it's pretty good. That's what we're
here for is to lend to clients, particularly in tough times. You can't be a bank that every time something goes wrong you
run away from your client.
And then we also do things like stress test that down to $30 oil, maintain $30 for 18 months, and say how much more
reserve are we going to have to put up? And I think I said somewhere – and you can correct this number, Marianne,
we're not in the same room, that if that happened, we think we'd have to put up another $500 million or $750 million in
reserves, which is just not something we worry a lot about.
Operator
Your next question is from the line of Steven Chubak with Nomura.
<Q - Steven J. Chubak>: Hi, good evening.
<A - Marianne Lake>: Good evening.
Company Name: JPMorgan
Company Ticker: JPM US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 15
<Q - Steven J. Chubak>: So, Marianne, I appreciated your commentary on the preferred issuance that you guys have
done so far throughout the year. It looks like you're now above the 150 basis point target. You alluded to that being a
function of efforts to manage to your binding constraint under CCAR. I just wanted to get a sense as to how you guys
are thinking about issuance plans going forward.
<A - Marianne Lake>: It's obviously a great question. Unfortunately, we really don't guide to our forward-looking
issuance. You're right, we are above 150 basis points right now, and we're also working on our leveraged balance sheet.
So we're working the dials exactly as you would expect us to, but we're not going to make any comments forward
issuance.
<Q - Steven J. Chubak>: Understood, I had to give it a shot.
<A - Marianne Lake>: Yes, I got it.
<Q - Steven J. Chubak>: So just moving over to the Investment Banking side, and maybe trying to just dig a little but
deeper into some of the guidance you've given on M&A, it looks like the backlogs and expected completions for the
fourth quarter are quite healthy. But at the same time, post the August volatility, some of the historically strong M&A
indicators like market caps, CEO confidence, those measures appear to be deteriorating. I just want to get a sense how
you're thinking about the M&A outlook beyond the fourth quarter, just given some of the weakness that we've seen in
some of those measures.
<A - Marianne Lake>: So the pipeline for 2016 is building up. So we don't have perfect visibility yet. We think
obviously the deals that were being done in 2015 were skewed towards larger deals. And we think there may be more
flow in 2016, but it looks pretty healthy to us so far. But it's building up.
<Q - Steven J. Chubak>: Okay, thanks for taking my questions.
<A - Marianne Lake>: Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
<Q - Gerard S. Cassidy>: Thank you, good afternoon. Marianne, can you share with us? You mentioned that you've
built out 400 new relationships in the middle market area of the Commercial Bank. But when we look at the loans
outstanding, you're essentially flat on a year-over-year basis, whereas the corporate client business has grown very
rapidly. Can you give us some more color behind what's driving those numbers?
<A - Marianne Lake>: I think over the last several quarters – and forgive me if I'm slightly wrong but I don't think I'm
entirely wrong – our C&I growth has been broadly in line with the industry. Remember that over the course of 2013
and 2014, we did a lot of work on simplifying our businesses, and that had an impact on the pace of our loan growth.
But our mature markets are performing well; we're seeing growth in our expansion markets. We're adding new clients.
We're calling our prospects. So everything is set to continue to see growth more going forward than we have in the
past.
<Q - Gerard S. Cassidy>: Okay. And then you talked about the reserve build in the CIB. About $128 million was for
oil and gas, and the total number was $232 million. What were the other areas that required reserve building this
quarter?
<A - Marianne Lake>: In CIB there was about $47 million of metals and mining, about net-net $20 million of BAU
growth, and then just a few other normal BAU puts and takes, downgrades, upgrades. Other than those three things,
there was no one specific callout.
Operator
Company Name: JPMorgan
Company Ticker: JPM US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 15
Your next question is from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
<Q - Christopher M. Kotowski>: Mine were asked and answered, thank you.
<A - Marianne Lake>: Thanks, Chris.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
<Q - Paul J. Miller>: On the Mortgage Banking side, I noticed that your jumbo loans – or not your jumbo loans, that
your residential loans on your balance sheet have grown. Are they mostly jumbos? And are they coming out of your
normal production, that $29 billion, and you're selling less to the government? Can you add some color around those
numbers?
<A - Marianne Lake>: So of the $19 billion that we put on our balance sheet, around $10 billion, just a little over $10
billion was jumbo. The rest was conventional conforming.
<Q - Paul J. Miller>: And then are they mainly ARM loans, or are they fixed rate loans?
<A - Marianne Lake>: We'll have to get you the split.
<A - Jamie Dimon>: I think the jumbo is like a third ARM. I forgot – I think the conforming I think is all fixed. That's
what I remember.
<A - Marianne Lake>: We'll confirm it for you.
Operator
Your next question is from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities.
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: Thanks very much. Marianne, if I can just follow up on some of the consumer credit quality
metrics, at the Investor Day and subsequently, Gordon was indicating, unsurprisingly just given the very low levels,
that the expectation should probably be for some moderate rate of deterioration, and yet we haven't seen it. And I'm
guessing that's partly because of the underwriting that's occurred over the past few years. So my question is, what are
the circumstances in which we should expect more significant deterioration there? Is it only macro, or is there
something else competitively that could influence that at this stage?
<A - Marianne Lake>: So you are right that at these 2.5% – 250 basis point levels in Card, it does speak to the quality
of the loans we are originating and the engagement with the customers, which is much more now about driving, yes,
some NII, but really, really good spend, and therefore lower credit quality. It's an integrated equation. We're expecting,
given our originations, and the runoff portfolio or the worst loans running off on the portfolio that we're building is
really, very, very clean. We're expecting those charge-off rates to be low for the short to medium term, so to read out
for the next year for sure. And there will be a combination of things that would drive that, but largely it would be
environmental. We don't expect at this point – we have made changes to our credit box, but they aren't material
changes. And we'll continue to test our appetite to want to do that, and that may have an impact, but we're originating
the vast majority of our cards in the super-prime sector.
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: And are the dynamics similar in auto as well?
<A - Marianne Lake>: Similar, yes. Compared to the industry, our originations are skewed to the prime space.
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: Thank you very much.
<A - Marianne Lake>: And our LTVs are lower, and our durations are in line or lower.
Company Name: JPMorgan
Company Ticker: JPM US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 15
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: Great, thanks very much.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
<Q - Brennan McHugh Hawken>: Hi, just a quick one at this point. Equities, Marianne, you highlighted strength in
Asia, which I think probably was better than maybe some had expected given some of the volatility. So could you give
some color on the trends you saw in that region in your Equities business?
<A - Marianne Lake>: The biggest comment I would make is that there was a lot of volatility, particularly in China, in
the second part – or towards the last part of the second quarter. We did pretty well. We helped our clients. We didn't
have significant open risk positions. We weren't very directional, so we were able to do well in that situation, also in
the reversal, also on currency moves. So it really is a comment I made about we're here to serve our clients. They were
transacting. We were able to do risk intermediation intraday for them, and so we made money on both ends.
<Q - Brennan McHugh Hawken>: Thanks for that.
Operator
You have another question from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
<A - Marianne Lake>: Hi.
<Q - Gerard S. Cassidy>: Thank you. Hi, Marianne, a quick question on your Consumer business. You guys have
shown very strong, steady growth in the mobile users. I think it's over 22 million in this quarter. That's up from 18
million a year ago. Can you share with us what percentage of your customers are actually mobile users, and how does
that compare to a year ago? And what does Gordon think? What's the penetration rate that you think you can finally get
to there?
<A - Marianne Lake>: So let me just talk qualitatively for a second, and we'll get you some numbers. But we are
focused on mobile and digital primarily because it's going be great for the customer experience. It's what our customers
want, and also because it's a significant enabler for reducing cost to serve and improving efficiency. So we've been very
focused on, whether it's QuickDeposit, whether it's QuickPay, whether it's our mobile wallet, whether it's our mobile
app, and we've been seeing great results. Off the top of my head, I'm not going to be able to tell you the penetration
rate, but we can get back to you.
<Q - Gerard S. Cassidy>: Okay. And is there any evidence that you guys can point to where you're actually taking
market share from other banks because your mobile products are just more superior than some of the smaller regional
banks, like community banks?
<A - Marianne Lake>: I can tell you that we are growing our deposits nearly twice the industry. So I think that's a
reasonable indication for a bunch of different reasons and that we have a very highly rated app.
<Q - Gerard S. Cassidy>: Okay.
<A - Marianne Lake>: I think the most highly rated bank app, but we'll check that too.
<Q - Gerard S. Cassidy>: Okay. And then finally, your asset yields jumped this quarter, which was good to see of
course. Can you share with us how the Fed funds rate went up as much as it did sequentially? And also, your securities
yield went up in the quarter sequentially. Can you give us some color behind both those numbers? Thank you.
<A - Marianne Lake>: So on the Fed funds and reverse repos, we had moved towards higher yielding, for example,
emerging markets, assets there, so we got high yield there. We saw some yields on our trading book moving out of
emerging markets, so it's just a bit of puts and takes. And on securities, was it significant? I'm sorry, I'll come back to
Company Name: JPMorgan
Company Ticker: JPM US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 15
you.
Operator, any more?
Operator
There are no further questions.
Marianne Lake
Thank you, everyone.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. You may now disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.