Company Name: Verizon
Company Ticker: VZ US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 15
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Michael T. Stefanski
• Francis J. Shammo
Other Participants
• Simon Flannery
• David William Barden
• Philip A. Cusick
• John C. Hodulik
• Michael L. McCormack
• Michael I. Rollins
• Amir Rozwadowski
• Brett Joseph Feldman
• Craig Eder Moffett
• Jonathan Atkin
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning and welcome to the Verizon third quarter 2015 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants
have been placed in a listen-only mode, and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. [Operator
Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Michael Stefanski, Senior Vice President, Investor
Relations.
Michael T. Stefanski
Thanks, Brad. Good morning and welcome to our third quarter 2015 earnings conference call. This is Mike Stefanski,
and I'm here with our Chief Financial Officer, Fran Shammo. Thank you for joining us this morning.
As a reminder, our earnings release, financial and operating information, the Investor Quarterly, and the presentation
slides are available on the Investor Relations website. A replay and a transcript of this call will also be made available
on our website.
Before we get started, I would like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement on slide two. Information in this
presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject
to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the
SEC, which are available on our website.
This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the
most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the financial materials we have posted on the website. The
quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis
Company Name: Verizon
Company Ticker: VZ US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 15
unless otherwise noted as sequential.
Before Fran goes through our results, I'd like to highlight a few items. For the third quarter of 2015, we reported
earnings of $0.99 per share on a GAAP basis. These reported results include a non-cash pre-tax charge of $342 million
or $0.05 per share for a pension remeasurement adjustment due to a settlement accounting threshold that was met in the
third quarter. Excluding the effect this non-operational item, adjusted earnings per share was $1.04 for the third quarter
compared with $0.89 a year ago, or growth of 16.9%. There were no special items of a non-operational nature in the
third quarter of 2014.
Through the first nine months, adjusted earnings totaled $3.10 per share compared with $2.65 per share last year.
However, as we have consistently pointed out, last year's adjusted EPS would have been higher on a non-GAAP
illustrated basis if we assumed 100% wireless ownership for the entire first quarter. On this more comparable basis, the
adjusted EPS growth rate was about 14% for the first nine months of 2015.
As a reminder, our Wireline results include the operations in the three states that we agreed to sell to Frontier. These
operations will be included until the transaction closes, which we expect at the end of the first quarter of 2016. Also, as
previously noted, we are no longer recording depreciation expense on these assets, as they are classified as held for
sale. We continue to estimate that the full-year 2015 earnings benefit of lower depreciation expense will be about $0.13
per share.
In terms of the AOL acquisition, which closed in late June, our third quarter consolidated results include the operations
of AOL, which are reported as part of Corporate and Other. We have not restated prior history, so periods prior to the
third quarter of 2015 will not include AOL results.
With that, I will now turn the call over to Fran.
Francis J. Shammo
Thanks, Mike. Good morning, everyone. Our third quarter and year-to-date results demonstrate that we continue to
execute on the fundamentals of our business and deliver strong financial performance while actively positioning the
business for future growth and profitability. We are very committed to building the business for the future, and we are
doing so through investments in our existing networks as well as the platforms that will position us to capture
incremental profitable growth in new areas like mobile video and the Internet of Things.
We continue to execute a disciplined capital allocation model. In addition to our consistent investment strategy, we are
also committed to returning value to shareholders and maintaining a strong balance sheet. We've had a very active year
with capital investments and spectrum purchases which position us for the future growth, the strategic acquisition of
AOL, and the return of more than $11 billion in value to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchase
while remaining on track with our previously stated deleveraging plan.
In early September, our Board of Directors approved a 2.7% dividend increase, which raises our annualized dividend to
$2.26 per share. This was the ninth consecutive year that our board has approved a dividend increase, affirming their
confidence in the strength of our future cash flows.
On the operational front, our focus is to provide customers with consistent network reliability and a great customer
experience, and we are competing very effectively in all parts of the business. We once again delivered strong earnings
growth and free cash flows. In Wireless, we posted another quarter of quality connections growth and profitability, with
sequential improvements in postpaid gross and net adds as well as net phone additions. Postpaid net adds totaled 1.3
million, which does not include any wholesale or Internet of Things connections. Net phone add additions were
430,000.
Customer retention was also a highlight, with postpaid churn of 0.93%, down seven basis points from last year. Total
Wireless revenue grew 5.4%, and our EBITDA margin expanded. Our Wireline quarter results were highlighted by
FiOS revenue and customer growth, with sequential increases in both Internet and video subscribers. Our segment
Company Name: Verizon
Company Ticker: VZ US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 15
EBITDA margin of 23.5% was up 50 basis points.
Now let's get into our third quarter performance in more detail, starting with our consolidated results on slide four.
Total operating revenue was $33.2 billion, an increase of 5% which, as Mike indicated, includes revenues from AOL.
Excluding AOL, which was not part of Verizon a year ago, our top line growth was 3.1%. Our consolidated revenues
have been consistently driven by customer and usage growth in both Wireless and FiOS.
Our overall revenue mix continues to change, driven by the unsubsidized equipment model, increasing video demand in
Wireless, and a higher mix of broadband and FiOS. As these trends evolve over the near term, we expect future
revenue growth to result from increased video and Internet of Things traffic, enabling new business models in Wireless
and continued broadband demand in Wireline.
In terms of our mobile video strategy, earlier this month we were the first to market with the commercial launch of
go90, a differentiated mobile-first social entertainment platform. Go90 includes a broad selection of premium content
and social engagement features and the capability for sharing and conversation around the content. The initial feedback
has been strong, with increasing engagement without significant promotion, and we have received positive industry
recognition. As go90 develops, we will be adding more great content features and advertising opportunities. You can
expect a flow of product enhancements, creating a new ecosystem for digital creators and advertisers, and a video
consumption model that we can monetize in multiple ways.
AOL is expected to play a key role in the success of our video strategy. The acquisition of AOL significantly improves
our digital media and advertising capabilities. These capabilities will be a key component of our video business model,
which will be driven by digital mobile advertising in the future. We are taking a strong leadership position in the
Internet of Things. With our experience in networks, devices, platforms, and applications, we are creating an ecosystem
that will foster innovation and expand the entire IoT market.
Here are a few examples of our early initiatives. In August, we announced the commercial availability of hum, an
aftermarket vehicle technology and subscription service, creating a connected car driving experience that can operate in
more than 150 million vehicles in the United States. We are very active in Smart City Solutions market, and we have
already announced a partnership with the city of Savannah, Georgia. Municipalities like Savannah are looking to take
advantage of our intelligent solutions to integrate disparate systems, monitor traffic and safety conditions in real time to
improve efficiency and public safety.
These are just a few examples of the many opportunities we are pursuing. We are very well positioned to capitalize on
these new opportunities that require both the ubiquity of mobile service and the capabilities of platforms above the
connectivity layer. This will enable us to monetize usage through new commercial models, including data analytics and
applications.
New revenue streams from the Internet of Things continue to emerge and grow, with revenues of $175 million in the
quarter and about $495 million year to date. As our revenue mix expands, we are focused on improving the customer
experience while reducing our overall cost structure through process improvements and operating efficiencies.
The focus on cost structure has enabled us to sustain a strong earnings profile. Consolidated EBITDA totaled $11.9
billion, up 7.5% on an adjusted basis, and our adjusted EBITDA margin expanded by 80 basis points to 35.8%.
Let's turn now to cash flows and the balance sheet on slide five. Cash flows from operations were $9.5 billion in the
third quarter and totaled $28.4 billion year to date. The nine-month total included just under $2.4 billion of proceeds
related to the tower monetization transaction, which is non-recurring. In the third quarter, we continued to securitize
Wireless equipment installment receivables and received about $2 billion in cash proceeds. Free cash flow for the first
nine months excluding the tower proceeds totaled $13.5 billion.
Capital expenditures were $4.4 billion in the quarter and $12.5 billion year to date. We expect capital expenditures for
2015 to be within our stated range of $17.5 billion to $18 billion.
Our balance sheet remains strong and enables the financial flexibility to grow the business. We ended the quarter with
$112.3 billion of gross debt, net debt of $108.4 billion, and a ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 2.4 times.
Company Name: Verizon
Company Ticker: VZ US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 15
Now let's move into a review of the segments, starting with Wireless on slide six. In the Wireless business, revenue
growth, profitability, and cash flows are driven by our high-quality retail postpaid customer base. Total Wireless
operating revenues grew 5.4% in the quarter to $23 billion. Service revenue of $17.6 billion declined 4.1%, while
equipment revenue increased to $4.3 billion, up 73%. Service revenue plus installment billings increased 1.2%. Service
revenue growth will continue to be pressured and equipment revenues will grow as the activation rate for device
installment plans increase and more of the customer base moves to unsubsidized service pricing.
In early August, we simplified our pricing structure, centered on the device installment model. The pricing change
simplified the customer experience at the point of sale and provided a cleaner structure for managing their accounts.
Existing customers can still choose to sign a two-year service contract and remain on subsidized pricing when
upgrading to a new device. Additionally, business customers do not generally select device installment plans.
Consistent with our expectations, the percentage of phone activations on installment plans grew at about 58% in the
third quarter compared with 49% in the second quarter and 12% in the third quarter of last year.
In the fourth quarter, we expect the percentage of phone activations on device installment plans to increase to around
70%. During the quarter, 5.6 million phones were activated on device installment plans. We have about 19 million
device payment phone connections in total, representing approximately 22% of our postpaid phone base. Overall, more
than 30% of our postpaid phone customers are on unsubsidized service pricing.
In terms of profitability, we generated $9.9 billion of EBITDA in the quarter, an increase of 9.2%. Our EBITDA
service margin increased to 56.4%, up from 49.5%. As we have said before, we believe a more relevant measure of
profitability is EBITDA as a percentage of total Wireless revenue, which expanded to 43.2%, up 160 basis points. On a
year-to-date basis, our EBITDA margin was 43.9%, up 100 basis points from a year ago.
Now let's turn to slide seven and take a closer look at Wireless connections growth. We ended the quarter with 110.8
million total retail connections. This total does not include any wholesale or Internet of Things connections. Our
industry-leading postpaid connections base grew 4.9% to 105 million, and our prepaid connections total 5.7 million.
Postpaid gross additions improved sequentially to 4.2 million. Our disciplined focus on customer retention resulted in
improved postpaid churn of 0.93% in the quarter compared with 1% a year ago. Each quarter this year, we have
improved our year-over-year postpaid churn rate between four and seven basis points.
We are very focused on improving the customer experience through simplified pricing and better execution in our
distribution channels. We are seeing lower customer service call-in rates, which is an indication of improved customer
satisfaction.
Our retail postpaid net additions of 1.3 million were high quality, with a sequential improvement in the number of 4G
smartphone and total phone net adds. We added 889,000 new 4G smartphones in the quarter, which were partially
offset by a net decline in 3G smartphones, resulting in 694,000 net new smartphones. Total postpaid phone net adds
totaled 430,000, which included a net decline of basic phones. Tablet net adds totaled 818,000. Net prepaid devices
declined by 80,000.
Let's now take a look at 4G device activations and upgrades on slide eight. Total postpaid device activations totaled
11.6 million in the quarter, down about 1.2%. Similar to prior quarters, about 84% of these activations were phones,
with tablets accounting for the majority of the other device activations. We ended the quarter with 71.5 million
smartphones in total, and our smartphone penetration increased to more than 82% of total phones. 4G devices now
comprise more than 76% of our retail postpaid connections base.
As you would expect, growth in 4G device adoption continues to drive increased data and video usage. Approximately
89% of our total data traffic is on the LTE network, and overall traffic on LTE has increased by about 75% in the past
year.
About 7% of our retail postpaid base upgraded to a new device in the third quarter. The quality of our overall postpaid
phone base continues to improve. Through gross adds and upgrades, our 4G smartphone base has increased by roughly
34% in the past 12 months to 64.6 million. We still have a sizable 4G upgrade opportunity, with roughly 15 million
Company Name: Verizon
Company Ticker: VZ US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 15
basic phones and nearly 7 million 3G smartphones remaining in our postpaid connections base. Tablets are also
underpenetrated in our postpaid base at only 10%.
Wireless capital spending totaled $2.9 billion in the quarter and $8.5 billion year to date, up 8.4% from a year ago. We
continued to invest in our 4G LTE network to provide the industry's best reliability and to position ourselves to capture
the efficiencies and capabilities of new technologies. We are focused on improving our network capacity through a
number of optimization techniques, effective management of our spectrum inventory, and further densification in urban
markets.
Our densification program is progressing well and is achieving the capacity gains that we expected on the spectrum that
is in service. For example, in Chicago we are on our plan for small cell deployments, covering key locations with
distributed antenna systems and expanding our in-building coverage. This has helped support approximately 75% data
growth on the network while maintaining our number one ranking in network quality according to both internal and
external competitive benchmark studies. National studies continued to consistently rate Verizon as the overall 4G LTE
network performance leader. We lead in what matters most to customers, coverage and consistent reliable performance.
Densification is just one aspect of our network evolution strategy. We are working on centralizing network radio
control to enhance capacity and provide operational efficiencies while beginning to implement a software-defined
network architecture, laying the groundwork for new innovative services and applications.
We are extending our network leadership into 5G with our announcement several weeks ago that we are leading a
technology forum with key partners to ensure the aggressive pace of innovation, standard development, and appropriate
requirements for the next generation of wireless technology.
Let's move next to our Wireline segment, starting with a review of our consumer and mass markets revenue
performance on slide nine. In the consumer business, FiOS continues to be the driver of revenue growth and now
represents 79% of consumer revenue. In the third quarter, consumer revenue grew 2.8%. And mass markets, which
include small business, grew 1.8%. As we expected, there was a change in the consumer revenue growth trajectory.
The primary reason for the decline is driven by lower pay-TV subscriber growth and an increase in customers
right-sizing their existing bundles.
While FiOS broadband continues to grow, we are seeing a decline in the percentage of triple play customers. In
addition, we continue to see interest in our custom TV offering, which offers more choice and control at a lower price
point. We expect the continued adoption of custom TV will pressure revenue growth, but result in a higher contribution
margin.
In the third quarter, FiOS consumer revenue grew 7.1%, driven primarily by broadband subscriber growth and
increased penetration of Quantum. Our Quantum broadband service continues to scale, and because there are no
content costs, has a higher profitability contribution. At the end of the quarter, roughly two-thirds of our consumer
FiOS Internet customers subscribed to data speeds of 50 megabits per second or higher. We are seeing the highest rate
of growth in the 75-megabit speed tier, where one-fourth of our Quantum customers currently subscribe.
As I highlighted earlier, FiOS subscriber growth improved sequentially in the third quarter. In broadband, we added
114,000 net FiOS customers and now have a total of 6.9 million FiOS Internet subscribers, representing 41.7%
penetration. Overall, net broadband subscribers increased by 2,000 in the quarter. In video, we added 42,000 net
customers in the quarter and now have a total of 5.8 million FiOS video subscribers, which represents 35.6%
penetration.
We are working closely with Frontier to finalize the sale of our Wireline properties in Florida, Texas, and California,
and to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals and ensure a seamless transition. We are making good progress and
have secured approvals from the DOJ, FCC, and the state of Texas. We expect to close the deal at the end of the first
quarter of 2016. As we prepare to divest of these properties, we are focused on reducing our shared cost structure
post-transaction. In addition, we will also take this opportunity to significantly reduce the broader cost structure of the
entire Wireline business.
Company Name: Verizon
Company Ticker: VZ US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 15
Let's turn to slide 10 and cover enterprise and wholesale as well as the Wireline segment in total. In the enterprise
space, we continue to work through secular and economic challenges. In the third quarter, global enterprise revenue
declined 4.9%, and on a constant currency basis was down about 3%. In our global wholesale business, revenues
declined 5.1% in the third quarter. In both businesses, we continue to see similar trends impacting growth, with secular
declines in legacy transport revenue and competitive price compression in other services.
Total operating revenues for the entire Wireline segment was down 2.3% in the quarter. The segment EBITDA margin
was 23.5%, up 50 basis points, and on a year-to-date basis expanded 20 basis points to 23.2%.
As we have consistently stated, we are very focused on expanding margins and improving the profitability of the
Wireline segment. We are committed to reducing our cost structure while maintaining strong customer satisfaction. We
have achieved savings from restructuring our network and service provisioning and are seeing improvements in
productivity. We will continue to re-engineer our work processes to improve efficiency and reduce costs, with some of
the future savings depending on timing and the outcome of our current labor negotiations.
Capital spending in the Wireline was $1.2 billion in the third quarter and totaled $3.4 billion year to date, down 18.6%.
Let's move next to our summary slide. Throughout 2015, we have executed on the fundamentals of the business,
growing high-value customers and delivering strong financial and operating results, and generating free cash flows. We
have also continued to consistently invest in our networks and platforms to position us for the future growth. Our
year-to-date consolidated revenue growth was 3.3% after adjusting for the inclusion of AOL this quarter and the sale of
the public sector business in 2014. On this same basis, we continue to expect revenue growth of at least 3% for the full
year 2015.
Our adjusted EBITDA was up 6.4%, with margin expansion of 80 basis points to 36.6%. Excluding the tower proceeds,
cash flows from operations were up about 13% year to date, and free cash flow totaled $13.5 billion. We have added 3
million net postpaid Wireless subscribers, including total phone net adds of 613,000. Our new customer growth is high
quality, with 2.4 million new 4G smartphone customers and 2.5 million new 4G tablets. We have also improved the
quality of our postpaid base through upgrades and effective customer retention and have approximately 10 million
more 4G smartphone customers than we did at the beginning of this year.
In FiOS broadband, we have added 319,000 new subscribers and 158,000 in FiOS video. We are very focused on
developing new products and services in mobile video and the Internet of Things to monetize usage on our networks
and expand our revenue mix. In time, these incremental revenues will become more meaningful to our overall top line
growth. The launch of new products like go90 and hum are examples of where we can monetize usage at the network
and platforms layers, providing more diversity to future revenue streams.
With that, I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.
Michael T. Stefanski
Thank you, Fran. Brad, we're now ready to take questions.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley. Your line is
open.
<Q - Simon Flannery>: Thanks very much. Good morning, Fran. I think Lowell [McAdam] had talked recently about
earnings plateauing in 2016. Could you just give us a little bit more color about the puts and takes with the Frontier
divestiture during the quarter, during the end of first quarter, and all the cost cutting? And then any updates on the 600
Company Name: Verizon
Company Ticker: VZ US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 15
MHz auction given that the application rules came out last week? Thank you.
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: Sure. Good morning, Simon.
<Q - Simon Flannery>: Good morning.
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: So on the comment about the plateau of earnings, I guess it's – first off, let's start with the
simple piece, which is some of it's just pure math. So when you look at this Wireless model and converting from a
subsidized phone model to an installment plan model, as we've been pretty transparent with all of you, there was a
GAAP accounting that falsely increased the earnings of any company who adopted this model. And we've tried to be as
transparent as possible, giving you the baseline in the beginning, but that became more complicated.
And what we've said going forward is, look, the better measurement here is not service margin EBITDA but regular
EBITDA percent on total revenue because that normalizes out the fact that we're now recording 100% of the revenue
up front for the sale of the equipment rather than a subsidy and then recouping that through service pricing over a
period of time. So when you take that into consideration, as you plan out the curve on the installment sale and
penetration of the base, and I said in my prepared comments our base is trending – 30% of our base is already on this
new pricing. So as you go into 2016 and you get into that 50%, it starts to normalize out the earnings impact that was
accelerated through the year 2015.
So I guess what I would say is if you took out the impact of that in 2015 and you look at 2014 to 2015 earnings growth,
you probably get a more normal growth trend than what we're delivering in double-digit growth now. And then if you
put that normalization to the 2016, we'd actually would have grown earnings. But because of the math exercise here,
you're getting a flatness in that GAAP accounting. So that's part of it.
The next piece of it is, as we've said also, with the divestiture of the Frontier properties in the South, these are classified
as properties for discontinued operations. And for the year, we're anticipating that's going to be a $0.13 to $0.14 EPS
lift because we can discontinue the depreciation of those properties. So again, that has to get normalized out as we go
into 2016. So if you looked at it today, we're reporting $3.10 to date. We have about $0.11 of benefit. So it would be
around $2.99 versus $2.65 of last year.
The next thing is if you look at the divestiture of those properties, as we've said, these are higher-margin properties.
And since we are more of a centralized cost base company, we have a lot of allocations into those three properties. So
as I said before when we announced the sale, we have this what we call stranded cost that we need to work out of the
business since the time that we announced this.
And look, I think we've proven a great track record here in Wireline that we know how to do this. If you look at year
over year, we are down over 8,000 resources because of all the system enhancements and profit improvements that
we've made through processes and front-line execution on more online billing and so forth. So we know how to do this
and we've got about five more months to go, but we also have to consider the fact that we're in the middle of a labor
negotiation and some of those benefits won't be realized until we come to an agreement with the labor.
So this is more of a timing issue on this one. We will realize those benefits. As you know, the last time we entered into
a labor negotiation we said we would incur about $500 million worth of savings over the three years, and you can see
that coming through the EBITDA of Wireline. So I think that's important.
And then, of course, the last piece of this is, as you can see in our results this quarter, you're seeing more of a ramp in
corporate for the startup businesses. So as any startup business goes, you incur losses up-front because you're investing
in the product development, you're investing in the marketing and the promotional of that new business. And that's
going to be a drag on earnings through 2016 because the revenue will not catch up with the cost. So when you take all
that into consideration, that's where Lowell was mentioning and forecasting more of a flat, if you will, or plateau for
2016.
<Q - Simon Flannery>: And that's a GAAP ...
Company Name: Verizon
Company Ticker: VZ US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 15
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: And, Simon, on the update of the 600 MHz, look, as you know, applications participants as
buyers. The FCC did some forward part of the auction, which are expected to be due in January. And the whole
purpose of this was to give the broadcasters a sense of what the bid would be that they would receive. And now the
broadcasters have that chance to look at that and decide whether they're going to participate or not.
I think one important thing here though, too, is that after we saw the abuse in the AW-3 auction by DISH, I think the
FCC should learn from this and not give preferences to large corporations, award credits or set-asides. And the
government shouldn't be in the business of picking winners and losers. Let the consumer do that. So we'll have to see
how the rules play out here. But at this point, we do plan to participate. But we'll see how the rules play out, and we'll
go from there.
<Q - Simon Flannery>: Thank you.
<A - Michael T. Stefanski>: Brad, we're ready for the next question, please
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from David Barden of Bank of America. Your line is open.
<Q - David William Barden>: Hey, guys. Good morning, thanks, maybe two questions, if I could. Just first on the,
Fran, disclosure about the 22% of devices being on EIP plans but 30% of customers being on EIP pricing, could you
talk about the difference there? Is that BYOD? Is that a forward pricing strategy that you're starting to implement? It
would be helpful to understand that.
And then just second, as we unfold the go90 strategy and think about content acquisition, now that AT&T and DTV are
together, is there any thought about revisiting Verizon's historical conversations with the cable industry about maybe
joining forces to try to work together on content and distribution and allocation of resources? Thanks.
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: All right, thanks, David. Good morning. Okay, so on the difference between the 22% on
Edge and the 30% on pricing, obviously, if customers have fulfilled their contract over the two-year period of time
under the old subsidized model, those customers are free and always have been free to select whatever price plan they
want. And we're allowing them to move to the new pricing because they fulfilled their contractual obligation under the
old pricing. So in essence, they're bringing their previous device into the new pricing. So that's part of it.
The other thing is that there is a little bit of forward pricing here with current customers. And as we've talked before on
calls, we have a pretty diligent exercise where we go through our customer base and we attack the high-value
customers who we think have a higher propensity to churn from us. So there is some proactiveness there, and I think
you're seeing that come through on the reduction of churn through this year of four to seven basis points. And I would
anticipate that going into the fourth quarter, you should consider us to be within that improvement on a year-over-year
basis. Now given the fourth quarter is always generally a higher churn quarter as it was last year, but we do believe that
we will see a consistent improvement as we have seen through the beginning of this year.
As far as go90, look, go90 is a very, very different product set. It's mobile first, a social entertainment platform. Let me
just talk a little bit about where we are here. But this really is just a totally different perspective than linear TV and
content deals. And we know how to do that, and we've been doing that for 10 years with FiOS. But this is a very, very
different platform. Keep in mind, we're 20 days into this. We actually haven't done any advertising or promotion
activity around this product. So for our early stages, we're seeing very good platform stability. We are seeing very
encouraging feedback. And of course, we're looking at some very specific metrics here of what's the viewership, how
many times do people revisit the site, and what do the new shows capture.
And if you haven't downloaded, I would encourage you to because we now have over 10,000 assets in the product. We
have two exclusive episodes. One is called Top Five Live and the other one is called BETCH, B-E-T-C-H, and these
are really starting to take form with the millennials. And we're starting to see a number of encouraging revisits to the
platform on a daily basis to see what Top Five Live and BETCH are doing, and we have 48 more exclusive content
Company Name: Verizon
Company Ticker: VZ US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 15
deals coming that will be on this product before the end of the quarter.
So go90 right now, we're seeing very, very good upstage. But again, we really haven't started to advertise the platform.
We do have entertainers tweeting the platform who are part of the platform like Kanye West on his live show. So
there's a lot happening in this platform. So we are really pleased with the initial stages, but this is very, very different
than the legacy linear TV model. So I'll stop there, David. Thanks for the question.
<Q - David William Barden>: Thanks, Fran.
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: Brad, next question please.
Operator
Our next question is from Phil Cusick of JPMorgan. Your line is open.
<Q - Philip A. Cusick>: Hey, guys. Thanks. Fran, can you talk about the Custom TV effort and what you're seeing
overall in the video landscape? It seems like the 42,000 net customer additions this quarter was a little bit weaker than
we would have thought given seasonality. I wonder if you're still having any advertising issues, or if this is just the way
we should look at it going forward. Thanks.
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: Thanks, Phil. Good morning. So look, the TV environment this past quarter was extremely
competitive and continues to be. Custom TV though actually within the portfolio is performing similar to what it did
last quarter with the number of people choosing the product, and the number of migrations that we have within the
product. And of course, as we've said this is going to put a little bit of top line pressure on FiOS growth. And the reason
for that is the way you have to think about this is the new bundle is about $20 less than the average normal FiOS
bundle. But the offset to that is we're also getting an incremental benefit in the content cost. So we're seeing an
incremental margin gain by people selecting the Custom TV package.
I think what's more important though is that consumers are speaking to the total linear environment that says they only
want to pay for what they want to watch, and they don't want to pay for 300 channels when they watch only about 10%
of those channels. So I think that's more important as to where the ecosystem is going. We will continue to support
Custom TV. As we said, we know we have some disputes that we're working through. But Custom TV right now is
doing what we thought it would do.
As far as the growth perspective, I think if you look at last quarter with the negative 625,000 negative adds, we
continue to be positive, so we're gaining share. But look, the environment is millennials don't want linear TV content.
They're disconnecting their cable for just Internet content and mobile content, and that goes to why we are launching
go90 with a mobile-first perspective, and that's attacking that entire segment that a FiOS brand does not attack today
through a linear TV product.
<Q - Philip A. Cusick>: Thanks. When you reported the second quarter you talked about Custom TV, and most people
were taking only the basic $55 package. Have you seen that evolve upward a little bit as we've seen football season and
other things start in the fall?
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: You know, Phil, no, we haven't. The basic package is the basic, and then you get two
packages included. Now of course, you have a selection of those packages among seven. Some people are selecting the
sports. Others are selecting the live, like the Hallmark station and those things. But generally, sports fanatics generally
take a premium package. So Custom TV more is for those folks who really aren't interested in sports and are taking less
of the sports channels. But it's more or less the same trend, not seeing any difference there.
<Q - Philip A. Cusick>: Got it. Thanks, Fran.
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: Brad, next question please.
Company Name: Verizon
Company Ticker: VZ US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 15
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from John Hodulik of UBS. Your line is open.
<Q - John C. Hodulik>: Good day, thanks. Back to Wireless, Fran, if we could, you had a handset upgrade rate of
about 7%, which is down slightly on a year-over-year basis, but there's a much bigger comp coming up in the fourth
quarter of 2014 where you did almost 10%. Do you expect a bigger year-to-year decline in the fourth quarter here? And
if so, what kind of impact could that have on the margins? And then if you could give us a sense for how you expect,
given the trends you're seeing with installment plans, 2016 over 2015 would be great. Thanks.
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: Okay. Thanks, John. So on the handset piece for upgrades, what I would say is we're
anticipating a little less volume than last year because of the total iconic launch of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. But
this quarter we're still anticipating a fairly heavy volume quarter, as every fourth quarter is, but I would anticipate a
little less than what we saw last year. So I would think that upgrades would be a little less than what we ran last year.
As far as what we see from a take rate on installments going into 2016, look, at this point we're guiding to 70% in the
fourth quarter. We are now 100% at the point of sale with Edge only. Of course, we have an exemption for current
customers who are on the subsidy model who can opt to take a new subsidized handset. So we'll have to see how that
works going into 2016, and that may keep us around that 70% to 75% take rate. But it's too early to tell, so I don't really
want to give guidance yet on what the take rate will be. Let's see how we come out the fourth quarter. I'll readdress that
in the first quarter.
<Q - John C. Hodulik>: Great. Thanks, Fran.
<A - Michael T. Stefanski>: Brad, next question please?
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Mike McCormack of Jefferies. Your line is open.
<Q - Michael L. McCormack>: Hey, guys. Thanks. Hey, Fran, just thinking about the uptake of factoring – I'm sorry,
not factoring – of EIP and looking into next year, you've got two competitors getting very aggressive on leasing, just a
sense for your thoughts on leasing as a structure.
And then secondly, the prepaid decline, is that just a defocusing on that segment, or are you actually seeing some wins
on the postpaid side from the prepaid base? Thanks.
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: Thanks, Mike. So on EIP, look, we've gone to the full Edge product. As I've said before,
I'm not interested in a rental program. We're not seeing any impact from those programs from the competitors in our
base. And I think our results speak to that this quarter, and I think they'll speak to that in the fourth quarter as well.
I think what you'll see is if you speak to the rating agencies, they're becoming very concerned with the balance sheet
risk of some of the industry on putting up rental phones on the balance sheet with what the residual value will be with
those rental phones. So again, as I've said before, that's not something that we're entertaining at this point. Again, I
never say never, but that is not something that I would have an appetite for.
On the prepaid decline, I think look, generally if you look at how postpaid and the price points of postpaid, and I've
talked about this before, postpaid pricing is more or less mirroring what prepaid pricing was in the past. And we are
seeing some migration of our prepaid product customers to postpaid, but it's more probably limited than some others
because of our intense credit models and that you have to pass the credit in order to become postpaid. But there is a
segment of prepaid customers that are good credit customers that now that the price point is closer to affordability for
them on postpaid, they're moving into the postpaid product.
So I don't really look into the prepaid product decline as a problem set for us at this point. We generally really compete
with prepaid in our reseller model with companies like TracFone and Straight Talk and Straight Wireless, and that's
Company Name: Verizon
Company Ticker: VZ US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 15
where we really drive home the lower-end product without our brand connected to it. And that, although we don't
disclose much in reseller anymore, that segment continues to perform well for us.
<Q - Michael L. McCormack>: I guess, Fran, on the residual risk, is that just you think secondary market can become
softer or new devices being launched, or is it just an overall view on risk in the balance sheet?
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: Look, if you look at some of the programs, you have balloon payments that are due in 18
months. Eighteen months from now the market is changing. There's a lot of Apple product hitting the Chinese market
now, where China was one of the larger areas where we sold off used handsets. So as these markets get heavily
penetrated with newer product, that could impact the residual value of these phones going forward. So it's just a risk
that is going to have to be handled by the industry under that program. And at this point, that's not something we want
to deal with.
<Q - Michael L. McCormack>: Great. Thanks, Fran.
<A - Michael T. Stefanski>: Brad, next question please.
Operator
Our next question comes from Michael Rollins of Citi Investment Research. Your line is open.
<Q - Michael I. Rollins>: Hi, good morning. Thanks for taking the questions, just two if I could. First, Fran, could you
talk a little bit more about what mobile data usage looks like? You talked about the mix of data that's on 4G LTE, but
I'm curious. How much does a customer use? How much is the data growing year over year, metrics that I think can
help on that basis?
And then secondly, you describe that the service revenue plus installment billing was 1.2% up year over year. As you're
making the transition to these new rate plans, the unbundled installment plans, what's the risk that that goes lower
before it goes higher? Thanks.
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: Thanks, Michael. Okay, so on mobile data, what we're seeing right now is a trend across
our entire network of 75% growth year over year. Obviously, some of the metropolitan areas like a New York and
Chicago are higher than that. Chicago we said is up 75%, but New York, San Francisco, some others are higher than
that in growth rate. So it depends where you're at. And then we have markets obviously lower than that because of
more rural areas. So that's generally what we're seeing in the network right now.
On the installment sale billings of 1.2%, yes, I do believe that will go lower as we make this transition into 50% of our
base for installment sale. So the trend of service revenue and the installment billings plus the service is going to
continue to decline until we get into that middle part, latter part of 2016 where the curve will reverse, and then you'll
start to see that flatten out and start trending back up just like the math would dictate.
<Q - Michael I. Rollins>: And could that go negative?
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: I'm sorry, go ahead.
<Q - Michael I. Rollins>: Could there actually be a rate of decline during this transition?
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: No, I think what you're seeing now if you look at the previous quarters, it's pretty trending
about the same. I don't that is going to accelerate.
<Q - Michael I. Rollins>: Thank you.
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: Brad, next question, please?
Operator
Company Name: Verizon
Company Ticker: VZ US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 15
Certainly. Our next question is from Amir Rozwadowski of Barclays. Your line is open.
<Q - Amir Rozwadowski>: Thank you very much and good morning, Fran and Mike.
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: Good morning, Amir.
<Q - Amir Rozwadowski>: I was wondering if we might be able to discuss a bit more about your midterm thoughts on
the competitive landscape. For some time, of course, we've seen the impact of increased competition in the market with
respect to how devices are sold, pricing of services, et cetera. And at least from our end, the most draconian fears have
yet to be realized.
As we head into 2016, both of the comparatively smaller carriers seem to be positioning themselves to be levering up
here, albeit one of them synthetically through the lease company. With that in mind, are we potentially entering a
period in which the focus may increasingly shift towards increased returns versus one that's overly emphasizing
competition? And if so, how do believe you can fare in that type of environment?
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: I guess, Amir, first of all, let's set the stage that the wireless industry has always been very
competitive. And even through all this competitiveness, the industry itself continues to grow, even though everyone
thinks that the industry is slowing. We continue to have net adds overall. Tablets become a bigger piece. Data continues
to grow. So the industry overall, although very competitive, continues to grow despite all that.
Our focus has always been competing on a network quality, reliability, and simplicity. And that's how we have been
winning for the past 18 years, and that's our focus going forward. And you can see that with our new brand campaign,
Better Matters, because what we believe with our brand and our campaign is we're trying to send a message that
although some say video and data are not as important and people are willing to get disrupted, I think if you talk to
millennials, the thing that frustrates them the most is the spinning wheel when they want to watch a video or download
something. So our focus on our brand is better does matter. We have the best network. We are the most reliable, and
we've become a more simple company to deal with, with our simplicity of pricing. So that's where we look to compete.
I think the fourth quarter will be a competitive quarter, as it always is every year. I think you're going to see promotions
in the marketplace, and this industry is going to compete as we always have. But I think our differentiation is how we
differentiated ourselves through this whole entire process of installment sale and now rental. And as I said before, the
rental programs don't seem to be having any impact or appeasing to our customers. So I would say that we will
continue to do the same.
As far as how the industry changes, I think what you're seeing from us is we're going in a different direction with our
go90 launch. We're appealing to a millennial population with our network and our products. And I do think that, as
we've said before, you can only price down so much and then you need to generate cash. And I think, as you said, some
have to start generating cash in order to invest in their networks to support the growth of the data or else things are
going to start to fall apart. And I think you're starting to see some of that in some of the National RootMetrics drive
tests on where some of the networks are starting to feel pressure and starting to fall down in the rankings.
We continue to invest heavily in our networks, as I said before. You should continue to see us as a flat overall capital
company, but Wireless continues to trend up. And that's important for the product set that we're launching. So I do
think there will be more focus on returns and profitability, and that's good for the industry.
<Q - Amir Rozwadowski>: Thank you very much for the color.
<A - Michael T. Stefanski>: Brad, next question.
Operator
Our next question comes from Brett Feldman of Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Company Name: Verizon
Company Ticker: VZ US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 15
<Q - Brett Joseph Feldman>: Thanks. I'd go back to a question I think David asked earlier about your relationship
with the cable industry. And one of the things that has come up is the MVNO agreement that you guys signed several
years ago. And because it was signed several years ago, it's perceived to be maybe a little outdated. And so I'm just
curious. Do you still feel comfortable with the agreement the way it's structured? Do you feel like it's enabling the cable
companies to do whatever they want? And are you open-minded if they approached you about redoing it, if they felt
that the industry has evolved to a point where the agreement was stale and was not likely to create value for either you
or for them?
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: I think that you stated it, Brett. We have an existing MVNO agreement, and we were
informed that they're going to execute on that agreement, and the agreement is the agreement. I'm not going to get into
whether we're discussing revising the agreement or the terms and conditions of that since it's under an NDA, and we'll
see how this plays out. Obviously, the industry is moving. Cable is going to do what they're going to do, and we're
going to do what we're going to do.
I think that again, though, what I would say is we truly believe that Wi-Fi is a complementary wireless network, if you
will, with LTE, and we don't believe one replaces the other. Just like when we launched LTE we said, look, it's not
going to replace Wi-Fi. It's not going to replace broadband into the home. Similar, Wi-Fi is not going to replace LTE.
So I think that's where it stands right now, so I really won't interject any more around the MVNO.
<Q - Brett Joseph Feldman>: All right, just a quick follow-up since you mentioned Wi-Fi and I was thinking about
small cells. I think you had earlier said you were looking to deploy unlicensed LTE maybe in trial phases I think either
this this year or early next year. Where are you on that?
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: We're right on course. We will be – we're actually testing it in the labs now, and we are
looking to deploy sometime in 2016. And again, the unlicensed LTE is a great piece for us to increase our capacity.
And again, another differentiator between LTE and Wi-Fi is LTE is a fully managed network, Wi-Fi is not. So when
you start to load up Wi-Fi, that's why you start to see real degradation in service; whereas with LTE and then
overlaying unlicensed LTE, we can dynamically increase capacity when we see that capacity needing an increase. So
it's going to be a very viable tool for us in order to increase capacity without deploying a lot of dollars.
<Q - Brett Joseph Feldman>: Great, thanks for taking the question.
<A - Michael T. Stefanski>: Brad, next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from Craig Moffett of MoffettNathanson. Your line is open.
<Q - Craig Eder Moffett>: Hi, good morning, two questions if I could. First, you talked a little bit about the upcoming
auction. I wonder if you could just talk a little bit about how you think about different spectrum bands at this point,
with the options I guess out there being 600 MHz from the auction versus 2.5 GHz from Sprint that may be for sale
versus Charlie Ergen's spectrum that's mostly in the 2.1 GHz range.
And then, if you could, also just talk about on the Wireline side. How do you think about your commitment to the
Wireline business and FiOS going forward with Altice coming into the New York market, but you divesting some
properties outside of the Northeast? Is that still a meaningful focus, or would you look to reduce your exposure to
Wireline if you had the opportunity?
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: Thanks, Craig, appreciate it. On the auction and the spectrum bands, it's a good question
because the current auction is a 600 MHz band. And as you know, we deployed LTE contiguously on 700 MHz. That
doesn't mean that we can't operate with 600 MHz, but 600 MHz and 700 MHz don't play well together. There's a lot of
interference. So where we have 700 MHz, there would be a lot of work to deploy a 600 MHz spectrum. But there are
areas where we could use lower band spectrum, but it's probably not the top priority.
Company Name: Verizon
Company Ticker: VZ US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 15
We like the higher band like AWS. We've said that all along that Charlie is sitting on very good spectrum. It's very
good for capacity, which is why we spent $10.4 billion in the auction. But we also can do things like we've done in
Chicago and New York, where we felt the license cost was way too high, and we instead decided to deploy small cells
and get capacity in a more reasonable, cheaper way, if you will. Now some of this spectrum will come back to market.
We don't know how the FCC will treat that yet, so we'll just wait and see. But higher frequency spectrum is capacity,
and that's really what we need at this point in time.
As far as the Wireline commitment, look, I think with the three divestitures in the South, they were more or less
footprints which were not contiguous to anything else. Most of that property was copper, not fiber. So when we look at
the East Coast, it's a much different footprint. We'll have covered over 70% of the footprint with our FiOS product. We
are very committed to it. We're investing over $4 billion into the Wireline company a year, so that shows our
commitment from a capital investment perspective. We've already passed 20 million homes when we committed to
originally 18 million. So we are very committed to the FiOS product. It goes hand in hand with our Wireless strategy.
And I think if you've asked anybody, like an Altice, if you were going to come in and compete for fiber into the home,
you certainly would either pick the East Coast or the West Coast. And they've started with Cablevision on the East
Coast. So we have a very viable footprint and we're committed to that.
Now again, as I've always said, you never say never. And of course, Lowell and I are always open to new options, and
we always keep our eyes open for that. But at this point, we're very committed to the Wireline business.
<Q - Craig Eder Moffett>: Thanks, Fran.
<A - Michael T. Stefanski>: Brad, we have time for one more question, if you can please queue that up.
Operator
Certainly. Your last question comes from Jonathan Atkin of RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.
<Q - Jonathan Atkin>: Thanks. So my question is on enterprise, and I just wondered if you're seeing any notable
changes in competitive behavior versus other carriers. And then just on Wireless on the network side, if you could, just
remind us the approximate timeline for AWS-3 deployment. And then when would the network be ready for
VoLTE-only phones to be sold at retail? Thanks.
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: Okay, great. All right. So, Jonathan, on the enterprise piece, I guess what I would say is
we're seeing more or less the same. There has really been no change. I think there's a lot of competition. There's a lot of
price compression continuing in the IP space. As we've said before, the strategic side around security and data centers,
but even within the data center space now, there's an awful lot of competition happening with price compression. So I
think what you're seeing is a trend that we think will continue as we revamp the portfolio, if you will, and come and do
more of where we're going to willing to compete. So I think you're just going to see more of the same here.
As far as the wireless network and deployment of AWS, we're looking at probably in the 2017 to 2018 timeframe with
that, similar to where LTE-U would be for starting in 2016. And then, of course, so that will continue to deploy there.
And then on the phone-only where we would only get a LTE-only handset, probably more to the end of 2016 is where
we're looking to deploy an LTE-only handset.
<Q - Jonathan Atkin>: Thank you.
<A - Francis J. Shammo>: Thank you.
<A - Michael T. Stefanski>: Okay. Brad, that takes us to the end of the questions, but I'd like to turn the call back onto
Fran to close.
Francis J. Shammo
Company Name: Verizon
Company Ticker: VZ US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 15
Thanks, Mike. I'd just like to close with a few key points. So through the first nine months, we have solidly executed on
our fundamentals, delivering quality customer growth and strong financial results while positioning the business for the
future and returning value to shareholders. This execution has generated strong cash flows, enabling us to consistently
invest in our networks, platforms, future growth, and innovation.
In addition, we've returned value to shareholders and maintained a strong balance sheet, keeping us on track with our
deleveraging plans. As I highlighted earlier, we have returned more than $11 billion to date through dividends and a $5
billion accelerated share repurchase program. In September, our Board of Directors again reiterated their confidence
with a 2.7% dividend increase, making this the ninth consecutive year of a dividend increase. We look forward to
maintaining our positive momentum in the fourth quarter as we execute our strategy, launch new products and services
like go90, positioning ourselves for future growth, and creating value for customers and shareholders. Thank you again
for joining Verizon today.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using
Verizon Conference Services. You may now disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.