Company Name: Simon Property
Company Ticker: SPG US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 15
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Thomas Ward
• David E. Simon
• Richard S. Sokolov
Other Participants
• Michael Jason Bilerman
• Christy McElroy
• Jeffrey Spector
• Caitlin Burrows
• Paul B. Morgan
• Ross T. Nussbaum
• Robert Jeremy Metz
• Jeff J. Donnelly
• Ki Bin Kim
• Vincent Chao
• Michael W. Mueller
• Carol L. Kemple
• Ryan Peterson
• Steve Sakwa
• Daniel Joseph Busch
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Q3 2015 Simon Property Group, Inc. Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Julie, and I will be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will
conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of the conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this
call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now, I'd like to turn the call over to Tom Ward, VP of Investor Relations. Please proceed, sir.
Thomas Ward
Thank you, Julie. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today. Presenting on today's call is David Simon,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Also on the call are Rick Sokolov, President and Chief Operating Officer;
Andy Juster, Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Broadwater, Chief Accounting Officer.
Before we begin, a quick reminder that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements
within the meaning of the Safe Harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and actual results may
differ materially due to a variety of risks, uncertainties, and other factors. We refer you to today's press release and our
SEC filings for a detailed discussion of forward-looking statements. Please note that this call includes information that
Company Name: Simon Property
Company Ticker: SPG US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 15
may be accurate only as of today's date.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within
the press release with supplemental information in today's Form 8-K filing. Both the press release and the supplemental
information are available on our IR website at investors.simon.com.
For our prepared remarks, I'm pleased to introduce David Simon.
David E. Simon
Good morning. We had a productive quarter. We opened, started and completed several new projects. We closed our
joint venture with HBC, including the acquisition of German Kaufhof department store, which will serve as another
avenue of growth for us. And most importantly, we continue to produce strong operating and financial performance.
Results in the quarter were highlighted by FFO of $2.54 per share, which exceeded the first call consensus by $0.07.
These results were achieved even with the negative impact of $0.04 from the quarter compared to the prior year quarter
due to the strong dollar.
On a comparable basis excluding the loss on the extinguishment of debt in the prior year period, FFO per diluted share
increased 12.9% or $0.29 year-over-year. Key metrics, occupancy was 96.1%, leasing activity remains healthy. The
malls and outlets recorded releasing spreads of $11 per square foot, an increase of 18.4%.
Comp NOI increased 4.3% in the third quarter of 2015 and increased 3.8% year-to-date, keeping us on track for full
year guidance of 4% comp NOI growth. This is on top of our industry leading growth of more than 5% in 2014. As a
reminder, we do not include lease settlement income and comp NOI disclosure or new transaction. We also do not
include the impact of recently redeveloped or expanded centers.
Total sales across the portfolio increased 1.8% for the trailing 12 months, even with the loss of bankrupt tenants. On a
comparable basis, the sales per square foot increase for the 12-month ended September 30 was 2.7% positive. They
were strong in the mall but affected in the outlet business due to the strong dollar has had on sales activity from the
international tourist and properties along the Canadian-Mexican border, as well as traditional tourist markets.
The end of the third quarter, redevelopment and expansion projects were ongoing at 30 properties across all three of our
platforms, with a total committed spend of $1.7 billion. During the quarter, we opened significant expansion at two of
the country's most productive outlet centers, San Francisco Premium Outlet Centers and Chicago Premium Outlets,
following the expansion of the Outlets in Chicago and San Francisco are the largest, respectively, in Illinois and
California.
We recently opened the fashion wing at Del Amo. The wing includes a new Nordstrom and more than 100 exceptional
brands, many of them exclusive to the trade area. This transformation we have completed at Del Amo, is just another
example of how we continue to invest in our proven assets to enrich the shoppers' experience and enhance the value of
our real estate. We started construction on several new strategic projects during the quarter, including significant
redevelopments at The Shops at Riverside, The Westchester, and our progress is excellent with our Sears boxes at
Seritage.
As we move forward, construction continues on major redevelopment expansion projects. Some of our most productive
properties, including Roosevelt Field, The Galleria in Houston, Stanford Shopping Center, the King of Prussia Mall,
Sawgrass Mills and Woodbury Common, all of these projects we expect to be completed over the next 12 months. In
terms of new development, we opened two new in the quarter, Vancouver and Gloucester. We also opened Tucson
Premium Outlets October 1, and we're opening Tampa on Thursday of this week.
During the quarter, we started construction on a new Premium Outlet center in Clarksburg, which is projected to open
on October 2016. We are also, with our partner, McArthurGlen, we started construction on a new outlet in Provence,
France, which is scheduled to open in March of 2017, which will be the only designer outlet in the south of France.
And our share of investment of new outlets and full price is currently $725 million, not including the recently
Company Name: Simon Property
Company Ticker: SPG US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 15
completed Gloucester and Vancouver.
And let's talk quickly about the balance sheet activities. We issued $1.1 billion of new notes, with a weighted average
duration of 7.8 years and an average coupon of 3.05%. We've completed several secured placements during the quarter,
as well as the U.S. and German loan facility, financings for our joint venture with HBC. Our current liquidity between
the revolvers and cash on hand is approximately $6 billion.
Our industry-leading balance sheet continues to differentiate us in a very positive manner. We exercised caution during
the third quarter with respect to our common stock repurchase program and did not repurchase any stock during the
period due to the increased market volatility and the dislocation in the debt markets. We remain committed to our
buyback efforts, of course subject to market conditions.
In addition, we announced our dividend of $1.60 per share for this quarter; that's an increase of 23% year-over-year. In
fact, that's the fourth consecutive quarter that we've increased our dividend. We will pay $6.05 in 2015, and that's an
increase of 17.5% compared to $5.15 of last year. So, with all that said, no one is as active as we are in terms of
redevelopment and new development. And I'm pleased, based upon the performance to date, to once again raise our
guidance of 2015 of $10.10 to $10.15 per share. This compares to our original FFO guidance of $9.60 to $9.70 per
share, or approximately $0.48 higher from the respective midpoints. We're now ready for questions.
Q&A
Operator
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman from Citi. Please go ahead, sir.
You're live into the call.
<Q - Michael Jason Bilerman>: Hey. It's Michael Bilerman here with Christy McElroy. David, your comment about
the stock buyback being, I guess, a volatile stock market and some uncertainties in the debt markets, isn't that exactly
the time where you should be exercising your fortress balance sheet and significant cash proceeds to be able to buy the
stock? I know hindsight is 20-20, watching the stock go up $27, but I'm just curious about the mentality at that point in
time about not being aggressive at that point?
<A - David E. Simon>: Well, Michael. I think stock buybacks in terms of the marketplace reaction to them may be
overstated. What I'm most interested in at this company is growing our earnings and our dividend and maintaining our
balance sheet, proving our properties and enhancing our relationships. So I don't look at it at a quarter-by-quarter basis.
We are more focused on growing our earnings per share and our dividend.
And the fact is that in August, the market was very volatile. As you know, the debt market's gapped pretty significantly.
We chose for one quarter to be cautious. I have no regrets about that because our number one priority is to grow our
earnings and our dividends, and that to me is more important. And I think that's what the market should value more
importantly than what one's buyback activity may be from one quarter to the next.
We remain committed to it, but we're going to be opportunistic about that because we continue to believe – and I'm
terrible at reading from the script. I can barely get the words out. But as you know, our activity in redevelopment and
new development is not hypothetical, it is ongoing. And I think prudence in that category of the buyback is appropriate.
And again, I think our number one priority is earnings growth and therefore, dividend growth. And we'll buy stock
back when we feel like it's a real opportunistic time.
<Q - Michael Jason Bilerman>: Great. And Christy has a question as well.
<A - David E. Simon>: Sure.
<Q - Christy McElroy>: Hi, David. Just in thinking about the Simon Venture Group stuff, and we appreciate the
in-depth look at that business earlier this month. Beyond just sort of the small financial investment you made, what do
you view as the primary benefit of this business to Simon over the longer term as consumers' shopping habits continue
Company Name: Simon Property
Company Ticker: SPG US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 15
to evolve? And maybe you could sort of give us a sense for how big you think that your investment in this business
could reach over time?
<A - David E. Simon>: Well, let me just talk about what I think the goal is. Ultimately, it's to help connect with the
consumer. The mall business historically has always felt like the – our job was to get the box leased to the right
retailers and let the retailers do most of the connecting and driving most of the traffic. Well, I think the industry has
evolved where we've got to become the driver of traffic. And we've got to connect with the consumers.
So what I'm looking for in that – those investments, and that connection with technology, is how do I connect with the
consumer to drive traffic and make their shopping trip more enjoyable or more effective. Two, how do I help the
retailer do that as well. And then maybe, third, is there some new concept or new retailer that ultimately can proliferate
our portfolio through these kind of connections.
And if we can accomplish those two or three goals, I think we will have succeeded. And it's all about trying to take the
mall box, making it a smart, connected box to help our retailers and the property owner connect with the consumer so
that their trip is better, more efficient and more productive, which we think will lead to sales growth.
So that's the goal. We may do a little bit here and there that's a little far afield like funding a new retail or restaurant
concept because we think maybe that has potential down the road. And in terms of size, we're not going to get carried
away but it's really hard to pinpoint right now exactly how big that can be. But you have a sense of we're – kind of –
we'll ultimately be in the mid-20s by the end of this year, maybe we'll do another type of investment like that next year.
So it wouldn't shock me if we're in the 50-plus range by the end of next year but that's just a swag.
<Q - Christy McElroy>: Great. It's interesting stuff. Thanks.
<A - David E. Simon>: Thank you.
Operator
Thank you for your question. We do have another question and it comes from the line of Jeff Spector from Bank of
America. Please go ahead so you are live into the call.
<Q - Jeffrey Spector>: Great. Thank you. Good morning.
<A - David E. Simon>: Good morning.
<Q - Jeffrey Spector>: I guess, just thinking about the bumps throughout the year. David, what exceeded your
expectations and how were you thinking about the budgeting process for 2016? Can you compare year-over-year, your
mindset?
<A - David E. Simon>: Well, from – I think what's interesting to put in perspective, first of all, is that as you look at
our earnings growth, we have had an increase in lease settlement income, but we've also had the negative of the
currency negative from our foreign operations. If you put the two together over 2014, we've actually had a negative
$0.05 variance.
So the increase in lease settlement income from 2015 to 2014, offset against the reduction in earnings that we've taken
from our foreign investments due to the strong dollar, net-net year-to-date has been a negative $0.05. So you have to
put that in perspective. We've had good rental growth, good leasing spreads. We're obviously – had a lot more
bankruptcies in 2015 than we did in 2014.
And the other impact we've had on the negative side is that we've lost certain amount of percentage rent from the outlet
business because of the fact that the strong dollar has also hurt tourism shopping. And we've seen that impacted more in
the outlet business, the outlet tourist centers than we have in the mall business. The mall comp sales have been better
than our expectations and are leading the portfolio in terms of that.
Company Name: Simon Property
Company Ticker: SPG US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 15
So the fact is we always know, year in and year out, that's what makes us a little bit unique. We always have some
positives. We always have some negatives and we somehow manage to hit our numbers, exceed our numbers, produce
very strong industry leading results. I'd also say to you as we look into next year, I mean the key focus for us, frankly,
is we'll have anniversaried the stronger dollar. So that will not be the negative it was this year and the big focus
obviously is going to be leasing-up the bankrupt tenants. We're probably 60% to 70% on our way there. Our total loss
square footage is 1.3 million square feet.
So, we've got our work cut out but we've seen this movie before. The good news is we have quality real estate that
allows us to do it and we have other levers to continue to have industry leading comp growth. And I think the big
exciting thing that we've got in 2016 which won't show up in our numbers is all of the major redevelopment that we've
done between King of Prussia, Roosevelt Field, Stanford, I want [ph] Craig (19:14) to go see Del Amo. It's
unbelievable what we've started there.
Of course, we're still finishing it. It's a big complicated projects but we've got Woodbury Common coming on board.
We've got the extension of Sawgrass Colonnade, new development, et cetera, that is going to be really terrific to open
up in the latter half of 2016 which positions us 2017.
The model is reinvest, generate excess cash flow, pay higher dividends. And I should, of course, remind you that our
dividend in 2008 was $3 and – actually in 2008, I think it was – 2009, it was $2.70. It's $6.05 today. We'll have
significant growth in next year as well. But we got to show up and we got to go to work every day. I hope...
<Q - Jeffrey Spector>: All right. Thank you. That's helpful. Good timing on the – yeah.
<A - David E. Simon>: I hope it answered your question, but I'm not – but we...
<Q - Jeffrey Spector>: Yeah. No.
<A - David E. Simon>: We've got work to do. And one thing about comp NOI, if you look at 2009 – I'm sorry. If you
look at 2013, you look at, I don't know, 5%. What we have guys, 5%? 2014, we had 5%. This year, we're going to have
4%. So we're building it off a pretty strong base, and we didn't have any down years of non-performance to build it off
of, right?
So, it's great to build it off a base if you were – you had non-performance, but we haven't had that, frankly. And in the
Great Recession, our comp NOI was relatively flat, which was industry-leading as well.
<Q - Jeffrey Spector>: No, that's very helpful. Thank you, and good timing on the Del Amo because I know [ph]
Craig (21:31) has put in a request to visit it.
<A - David E. Simon>: Come on. Come on down.
<Q - Jeffrey Spector>: Great. And then my only – my one other question was just on the, your previous comments on
the redevelopment pipeline. We believe you've mentioned through 2017, are you at the point where you think that
pipeline could continue $1 billion-plus beyond 2017? Are we correct on that?
<A - David E. Simon>: Yeah. I feel pretty good about that, yes.
<Q - Jeffrey Spector>: Beyond 2017 or not yet?
<A - David E. Simon>: Yes. No, no, no.
<Q - Jeffrey Spector>: Beyond, okay.
<A - David E. Simon>: We expect – no rest for the weary. So, this morning – we're going through our budget cycle
now. It's just a lot of fun. But this morning, we went, we're going through our capital plan for 2016, 2017, and 2018.
We don't see it abating. It's actually, in 2017 it will be higher, probably around $1.5 billion and 2018 in that range. And
the big unknown is how fast the Seritage things happen. We're not – it's a joint venture, so, it's not just a question of
how fast we can go, but also how fast Seritage can goes and how fast Sears can go which is clearly, we're trying to
influence, but we don't have complete control on that. But we certainly have a lot on the drawing board to do there.
Company Name: Simon Property
Company Ticker: SPG US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 15
<Q - Jeffrey Spector>: Great. Thank you.
<A - David E. Simon>: Sure.
Operator
Thank you for your question. We do have another question. It comes from the line of Caitlin Burrows from Goldman
Sachs. Please go ahead. You're live into the call.
<Q - Caitlin Burrows>: Hi. Good morning.
<A - David E. Simon>: Good morning.
<Q - Caitlin Burrows>: Earlier this year, [ph] mall REIT's (23:26) were of course impacted across the board by
retailer bankruptcies, but your same-center occupancy was down 80 basis points this quarter which was actually more
than the first and second quarters, which seems surprising. So, I was just wondering if you could talk about what drove
that year-over-year decline in occupancy to remain in the third quarter and how you expect it to trend going forward?
<A - David E. Simon>: Well, we had more bankruptcies in the third quarter. So Jones went out – just more
bankruptcies, and we've also opened up a few centers which had some decrease – we don't – we – just so people
understand, we don't – in our statistics, in our statistics we put in new centers the minute they're in in terms of
occupancy or new expanded centers. They're not in our comps NOI growth, but they're in our sales per square foot, and
they're in our occupancy. So part of that decrease was also that we added some new centers and some new expanded
centers, which actually drove our occupancy down about 20 bps as well.
<Q - Caitlin Burrows>: Got it. And then like you were mentioning before, you guys have had consistent pretty strong
same-store NOI growth. But do you think then this creates some easy occupancy comps for 2016 that should be able to
help you even more?
<A - David E. Simon>: Nothing is easy. Have you seen my gray hair recently? Nothing is easy. Now, I will – well, I
won't say anything about [ph] Gold (25:16). We did find – we did read this retail report. We found your list of 100
malls curious. So I assume the real estate folks didn't have much to do with that, but we're happy to help you develop
that...
<Q - Caitlin Burrows>: It was our retail team that put it together.
<A - David E. Simon>: Right. Right. You quoted traffic statistics which I'd encourage you to read the footnotes from
the – from your source.
<Q - Caitlin Burrows>: Will do. Thank you.
<A - David E. Simon>: Thank you. Happy to help.
Operator
Thank you for your question. The next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan from Canaccord. Please go ahead.
<Q - Paul B. Morgan>: Hi. Good morning. Just on the sales trend, can you talk a little bit about it? Whether and to
what extent the tourist markets were a drag due to the dollar or maybe looking at any differences between the mall and
the premium outlet portfolio?
<A - David E. Simon>: Well, we're not going to run from this. We're just going to tell you reality. We have
unbelievable tourist centers in our outlet business, Orlando, Woodbury, throughout Las Vegas, and those generate a lot
of tourism dollars. And the tourists, because of the strong dollar, was quiet. The high-end luxury retail market in, say,
New York City and Miami has been hurt as well.
Company Name: Simon Property
Company Ticker: SPG US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 15
And we saw that have an – usually, it has very little impact, but we saw that a little bit more in the outlet business and
very little on the mall business. We think it's more or less temporary. These are great assets. It has no impact on retail
demand and leasing the space and comp NOI growth. But that's why the sales metrics are a bigger reaction from you
than they are for me, but we tell it like it is. So that hasn't had an impact on our retail sales per square foot, but we don't
think it's going to have an impact on our ability to continue to grow comp NOI growth.
<Q - Paul B. Morgan>: Okay that gets to my other question, which is just if you look at the public retailers, a lot of
them, at least their stocks, have gotten hit pretty hard over the past several months. And as we head into the holidays,
how – as you talk to them, engage with them about their open-to-buys for next year, I mean, how is their sentiment?
Has it been shifting at all? Is it – is this just the shifts in market share between different retailers or is there anything
more systematic in terms of maybe how they're approaching their growth over the next year or two?
<A - David E. Simon>: I'd say this, Paul, it's retail dependent, but they are – the better retailers are dealing with the
stronger dollar, which has a short-term impact on them. And second, the consumer – look, the fact is our GDP growth
is anemic, just from the – we are growing our general economy at 2% below. I think retail can't avoid that fact. The
good news is we outperform that because we cater to generally the better consumer. And what I think we've seen from
the better consumer this year is a little bit moved toward – which happens in cycles, a little bit more toward durable
goods than non-durable goods, which has the impact of making kind of a flattish comp sales growth increase. But like I
said, the mall business, we had very strong comp NOI – I am sorry, comp sale, retail sales growth this year and which
was offset, as I said, only by the tourist centers and the outlet business.
So net-net, we're up 2.7%. But if I isolated just the mall, we'd be up much higher than that, and that is a testament to,
even though an anemic GDP growth, the better consumer is spending even though there's been a significant increase in
durable goods purchases. But retail right now is – generally is challenging, but we're producing results and we intend to
continue to do that.
<Q - Paul B. Morgan>: And would you say there's – it kind of hasn't translated into a meaningful shift in the appetite
for space in your centers as people talk about next year?
<A - David E. Simon>: Not really. I think if the opportunity to grow their business in good real estate for the better
retailers is strong, and I don't see the current environment affecting that.
<Q - Paul B. Morgan>: Great. Thanks.
<A - David E. Simon>: Sure.
Operator
Thank you for your question. The next question comes from Ross Nussbaum from UBS. Please go ahead.
<Q - Ross T. Nussbaum>: Hey, everybody. I'm here with Jeremy Metz. Hey, David, when we met the other day, you
talked a little bit about the amount of money that consumers are spending in your mall for every minute they're there,
saying there's like a 1:1 ratio. I'm curious if you've done any work to think about the spending of millennials and teens
versus, say, their parents, to sort of further dig into whether the impact of the Internet and technology is going to be a
growing problem just from a generational perspective?
<A - David E. Simon>: I don't have it in front of me, but yes, we've looked at the typical generational gaps that you
would see, baby boomers, generation X, so on. Yeah, I don't have that in front of me but that's, those numbers are. It's
not what you think it's – in other words, there's not a big differential between generation X and millennials. The one
thing we're starting to see is the baby boomers probably more of a trend on their decreased expenditures than anything
else.
Again, I think the millennials offer great opportunity for us because they're looking for – they are going through their –
generally going through their increase in income opportunity over the next decade. It's a huge population base, greater
Company Name: Simon Property
Company Ticker: SPG US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 15
than even the baby boomers. These folks will get married, they will have children, they will move out of urban
environments, especially with the more difficult living conditions that's going on in a lot of urban environments. They
are – we believe loyal shopping, mall shopping consumers. We've got – and we're making the mall, generally, a better
experience for them to be at.
So, I don't think there's a big differential. I don't have the numbers in front of me, and I think the millennials 80 million
people deep, grew up in the mall environment. They are comfortable with the mall environment. And as their income
grows and as they age and have kids, I think they'll be loyal mall shoppers especially given the environments we're
creating.
<Q - Ross T. Nussbaum>: I appreciate that. I think Jeremy has got a question as well.
<A - David E. Simon>: Sure.
<Q - Robert Jeremy Metz>: Yeah. Just two quick ones. In terms of the lease cancellation income, it's the highest it's
been in a long time. David, earlier you mentioned Jones. I just wonder if there's any other tenants, in particular, to
maybe Jones, as I think Forever 21 was in a few super size locations. They were looking to downsize. I'm not sure if
they were a part of it this quarter?
<A - David E. Simon>: No, no Forever 21. It basically the – again, the big one was Jones. There were a couple of
others that we year-to-date, that we dealt with. But I hate kind of going through retailers on that. It's somewhat
confidential. The good news is resettlement income does ebb and flow. The good news is it's not – anytime we do that,
we still have the space. So, it kind of – if I get three years of rent and then I get the chance to lease the space back
again, that's good business. There is nothing wrong with that. And I said, and to put the earnings in perspective and you
may not have caught the original response to an earlier question. Net-net when I look at the stronger dollar from our
foreign investments versus the increase in lease settlement income from 2014 to 2015, I'm in the hole $0.05
year-to-date. So please keep that in mind as you think about our business.
<Q - Robert Jeremy Metz>: Got it. And then just switching gears quickly, Highwoods recently announced they were
looking to sell Country Club Plaza. I was just wondering is that something Simon would be interested in or any
thoughts on where that process is at? Thanks.
<A - David E. Simon>: I understand that there is a process. I think it's good real estate, it's got a good position in its
marketplace. But beyond that I, that's just – I'm not informed in terms of numbers or anything else, the process. But I
understand there is a process and it's always been very good real estate and good market.
<Q - Robert Jeremy Metz>: Okay. thank you.
<A - David E. Simon>: Sure.
Operator
Thank you for your question. The next question comes from the line of Jeff Donnelly from Wells Fargo. Please go
ahead.
<Q - Jeff J. Donnelly>: Good morning.
<A - David E. Simon>: Good morning.
<Q - Jeff J. Donnelly>: Just maybe sticking with leasing, I'm just curious, David, do you think the increase in lease
settlement income you're getting foreshadows potentially more space coming back to you guys after the holiday season
through bankruptcy?
<A - David E. Simon>: I actually think it's tailing down. As I look at what generated the list, it's a couple of odd things
in our watch list is actually the guys that we were worried about is kind of happened and done that, so it's out there, it's
possible, but I actually think next year will be less than impacted by bankruptcies than we were this year.
Company Name: Simon Property
Company Ticker: SPG US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 15
<Q - Jeff J. Donnelly>: And then switching gears, I'm just curious for your take is Macerich taken the joint venturing
some assets at a low to mid for cap rate than we've been told for fairly middle of the pack for them. Does that pricing in
the market may lead you to feel there might be pockets of your portfolio where you open to JVs or even selling out
some assets entirely to expand your repurchase initiative?
<A - David E. Simon>: I don't really, why don't you rephrase it. I don't really want to comment on what Macerich did.
So...
<Q - Jeff J. Donnelly>: I'm just curious about you said as a comp per transaction in the market there's something in the
fours compel you to say, gee, maybe you'd look at some selling your assets to fuel repurchases.
<A - David E. Simon>: I don't know. I mean, the fact of the matter is we are very comfortable with what we're doing.
We sell assets, there generally is complexity when you go to joint ventures. We like to do joint ventures when there is
new opportunities because there is – it's easier to justify, so for instance, just to take a few of the, we're pleased to be
part of new joint ventures on couple of the new developments like Brickell and Clearfork, very good partners, great real
estate. That was the only way we could do that. I like those kind of joint ventures where it's more new opportunities
than otherwise. If we'll sell assets. We sold a bunch of assets. Don't forget, we did a significant spin-off of our strip
centers and our smaller malls. I don't rule it out. I don't think we necessarily – it's not a priority to do.
The priority for us is to grow our earnings, grow our dividend, execute our redevelopment/development pipeline. And
we had the buyback, and I don't think we necessarily need the capital from existing properties in terms of a joint
venture to execute on the buyback.
<Q - Jeff J. Donnelly>: Well, speaking of JVs, you teamed up with Hudson's Bay to acquire, was it Galeria Kaufhof
Stores?
<A - David E. Simon>: Kaufhof.
<Q - Jeff J. Donnelly>: What can you tell us about those properties and just maybe what your plans are for those
locations down the road?
<A - David E. Simon>: Well, look, I think it's great mostly city center real estate in Germany, which is a very strong
market, very little retail space per capita as compared to the U.S., as an example. It's got built-in growth even if it just
stays kind of the credit lease that it is.
But we think there's some ability to redevelop some of the stores, take back some of the frontage, much like we're
doing with some of the department stores here in the U.S. And it's a strong cash flow business appropriately valued
with some redevelopment upside.
<Q - Jeff J. Donnelly>: Thanks.
Operator
Thank you for your question. We do have another question, and it comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim from Robinson
Humphrey. Please go ahead.
<Q - Ki Bin Kim>: Thanks. Just going back to your retailer watch list comments. Last year when you had RadioShack,
Wet Seal and Deb Shops and Delia's and some others, how early did you have a read into that they would go BK in
your – I mean, overall?
<A - David E. Simon>: Those particular ones?
<Q - Ki Bin Kim>: In general, I think. I was kind of curious, how much of an early warning sign does the watch list
provide to you?
<A - David E. Simon>: Pretty early.
Company Name: Simon Property
Company Ticker: SPG US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 15
<A - Richard S. Sokolov>: Yeah. Ki, it's Rick Sokolov. We certainly can see this coming along way away based on
the trends of what their leasing activity is or sales activity. When they follow up to reporter they are looking for new
equity? So none of these are surprises. And as David said, the ones that went away, they had been on the ropes for
years and years and they just ultimately ran out of the incremental equity sources and had to file.
<Q - Ki Bin Kim>: Okay. And maybe we you could put it in an easily digestible number. You mentioned 1.3 million
square feet that was impacted this year. In broad numbers, what does that look like next year?
<A - Richard S. Sokolov>: Well, it's hard to predict what next year's going to be. But as David said, we anticipate that
next year will certainly not be as large a year on bankruptcies as we had this year.
<Q - Ki Bin Kim>: Okay. Thank you. That's it for me.
<A - Richard S. Sokolov>: Perfect.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao from Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
<Q - Vincent Chao>: Hey, there. Good morning, everyone. I know we spent quite a bit of time on the sort of the
impact of the dollar and tourism and sales, but just curious if you could maybe give some more specific color about
Miami and then specifically Brickell Centre.
<A - David E. Simon>: Well, Miami is feeling some of the heat from obviously Latin America. But it's actually the
leasing of Brickell, Rick?
<A - Richard S. Sokolov>: Yeah. Brickell is doing very well.
<A - David E. Simon>: Great.
<A - Richard S. Sokolov>: It's opening fall of next year. We've been announcing periodically the tenants that are
signing up. It's a wonderful mix of designer tenants and restaurants, and it's anchored by Saks with a cinema. And if
you've been down there, it's a very incredible project with the two condo towers, the EAST hotel and the two office
buildings in addition to the retail, in a market that is really the financial center of that market. So we're very excited
about it going forward.
<Q - Vincent Chao>: Okay. So safe to say no impact on demand despite some of the innate tourism impact near term,
so similar to your comments from – for the other overall...
<A - David E. Simon>: No. Look, I think what I said earlier is consistent with that. Retailers – look, that's going to
attract the better long-term thinking retailers. So, the fact that tourism is a little soft right now doesn't detract the better
retailer. When I say better, I'm not just talking mix, but just they're better retailers. So, I'm just trying to explain to you
what's been reported in our sales per square foot. But I also made the comment to you, I don't think that is going to
detract from the demand of our real estate and our ability to drive comp NOI because we're going after the better
retailers, and the better retailers look through a quarter or two of sales volatility for whatever reason. And that's the
point I've been trying to make to a lot of folks a lot of time over retail sales.
Retail sales is interesting but not a predictor of comp NOI growth. And we've done all sorts of regression analysis. I've
talked about this ad nauseam, but we report the fact for you to have, but it doesn't detract from the ability to generate
increased cash flow because that's more supply and demand oriented and what the market rent of our space rolling over
is and what that particular location is. And if you've got a good space in a good mall, you're going to be able to
generate, given that rent rollover, that rent has been there for seven years, you got to look at where that rent was rolling
over seven years ago. So, and that's why we have re-leasing spreads of $11 a foot. That's the focus.
Company Name: Simon Property
Company Ticker: SPG US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 15
The volatility of retail sales is more interesting from a retailer point of view, less from the landlord. So, take New York
City street retail. There's volatility in that retail real estate there, but has the market value – I'm sorry, in retail sales, but
has the market value of that real estate changed? Probably, if you talk to a lot of people, they'd probably tell you no.
<Q - Vincent Chao>: Okay. Fair enough. Thank you.
<A - David E. Simon>: Sure.
Operator
Thank you for your question. We have another question from the line of Mike Mueller from JPMorgan. Please go
ahead.
<Q - Michael W. Mueller>: Yeah. Hi. A couple of questions here. One, you may have indirectly answered before, but
what was your share of the lease term that you booked this quarter?
<A - David E. Simon>: It's in our supplemental.
<Q - Michael W. Mueller>: The share of it is? Because I thought that was the consolidated amount?
<A - David E. Simon>: Well, if it's consolidated, that's our share. We may have a little minority interest in it, but if it's
consolidated, it's our share, right?
<Q - Michael W. Mueller>: Okay. And then secondly on the outlet development side, can you talk a little bit about the
returns you're seeing when you compare Europe starts to U.S. to Asia, and how you think about the pecking order of
opportunities?
<A - David E. Simon>: I would say that the new development in Europe tends to be a little lower than – our
developments here are around 11% return on cost generally. In Europe, they may be a touch lower, say, 8% or 9% to
start with. And in Asia, we really don't do them unless they're double digits because you've got tax impact and we want
a better risk adjusted return. I'd say they're probably in the 12% or 13% range.
<Q - Michael W. Mueller>: Got it. Okay. And I guess as you're thinking about opportunities going forward, I mean is
it more skewed toward the U.S. for new starts at this point or do you think you're going to see a little bit more pick-up
in Europe?
<A - David E. Simon>: Well, Europe, like I said, we're really excited on the Provence deal, 90% of it. That's a big a
project and a big market that hasn't seen a quality outlet like that, so that's good news.
There's two or three others through McArthurGlen that we're making good progress in, one in Spain that we hope to
start construction in 2016 on as we go through the permitting. So that's up there as well. Another one in the western
part of Paris that we are making good progress on. Another one in Belgium that we're making good progress on.
And in Asia we've got two or three others that are a little more difficult to predict, but we've got our second one in
Malaysia that we're confident we'll get started. And as well as Mexico City, we expect – I'm sorry, in Mexico we expect
to start one next year as well. So, we're making progress.
<Q - Michael W. Mueller>: Got it. Okay. That was it. Thank you.
<A - David E. Simon>: Sure.
Operator
Thank you for your question. The next question comes from the line of Carol Kemple from Hilliard Lyons. Please go
ahead.
Company Name: Simon Property
Company Ticker: SPG US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 15
<Q - Carol L. Kemple>: Good morning. How does your volume of temporary and pop-up tenants for this holiday
season compare to the recent past? And then historically, do you know what rate of those tenants convert to a
longer-term lease once their temporary lease expires?
<A - David E. Simon>: Well, it they are pop-up, generally they don't convert, but more and more retailers are testing
pop-ups to decide whether they want to do a long-term – a longer-term deal. But I would say, generally, there's an
increase this year primarily because we have a little bit more space from the bankruptcies that we've had this year. But,
Carol, just to remind you, we don't include that in our occupancy. It's got to be a year in that, but there'll be more
activity in pop-up stores for the season just because we've got a little bit more vacancy due to some of the bankruptcies.
<Q - Carol L. Kemple>: I was thinking of your American Girl Store that's opened in Castleton, I've seen where they're
basically doing that to test the Indianapolis market. Are you seeing more retailers not just doing a pop-up store for the
season, but more so to actually test the market?
<A - David E. Simon>: We're starting to see a little bit more of that. I think that's safe to say.
<Q - Carol L. Kemple>: Okay. Thank you.
<A - David E. Simon>: Sure.
Operator
Thank you for your question. We do have another question that comes from the line Ryan Peterson from Sandler
O'Neill. Please go ahead.
<Q - Ryan Peterson>: Yeah. Thank you. I just wanted to ask about the Houston Galleria and the Houston market, and
if you guys have seen any change in the shopper demographics there or the retail sales trends more generally, and what
your expectations are going forward.
<A - David E. Simon>: In what sense?
<Q - Ryan Peterson>: Just whether you think that Houston will be hit, whether retail is kind of the second impact of
oil prices there?
<A - David E. Simon>: Our Galleria is such a great asset. It tends to – it's kind of the unambiguous, number one. For a
market of that size, it's kind of unambiguous, number one shopping center. So it tends to weather any economic
downturn, generally. But I will say this. Look, we're not – our retailers are not immune to a little bit of a down
economy, and Houston is also a big tourist market for the Mexican nationals. So, there might be some slight retail sales
impact. But it will have no impact to the long-term rate asset that Houston Galleria is as well as – as you know, we're
doing a significant amount of transformation of that asset with the new Saks store, the new Saks Wing, the new
Websters which is going to open in the next 30 days or so. We have a lot of phenomenal stuff going on there. But sure,
could retail sales be marginally impacted there? Sure, but Houston Galleria tends to continue to way outperform just
because it's such a great asset. Rick, I don't know if you want to add anything.
<A - Richard S. Sokolov>: No. I think it is very well positioned, as David said, it's got the unique mix of anchors,
restaurants and small shops. And that market has been very enduring over cycles in the energy belt for decades.
<A - David E. Simon>: And if anything I think Houston generally has become less of a – I would certainly say, 20
plus years ago, was more boom- bust, but with the medical – it's, with the universities, the medical facilities there, it's a
much more diversified economy than just oil and gas.
<Q - Ryan Peterson>: Okay. Thank you.
<A - David E. Simon>: Sure.
Company Name: Simon Property
Company Ticker: SPG US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 15
Operator
Thank you for your question. We do have another question. It comes from the line of Steve Sakwa from Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
<Q - Steve Sakwa>: Thanks. Good morning, David.
<A - David E. Simon>: Good morning.
<Q - Steve Sakwa>: Just two quick questions. I know you've talked about the weakness in the U.S. outlet business, but
just – what about stuff kind of north of the border, south of the border, just how kind of are the international assets
performing?
<A - David E. Simon>: I'm sorry. I didn't hear your first part Steve.
<Q - Steve Sakwa>: Sorry. Is that better?
<A - David E. Simon>: Yeah. That's better. Thanks.
<Q - Steve Sakwa>: Okay. I know you've talked about the weakness in the tourism market for the outlet business here
in the U.S. I'm just curious how the assets in Canada, Mexico, over in Japan, the few that you have over in Europe, just
kind of how are the non-U.S. ones performing, from a sales and leasing...?
<A - David E. Simon>: Yeah. Again, I don't want you to overreact. I mean, there is a little bit of softness due to the
strong dollar with U.S. tourism. You're seeing that in all sort of businesses, hotel business, whatever. I mean, we're
dealing with it. But the fact that the international properties are actually performing very, very well, Europe sales, retail
sales was actually relatively impressive, the Klépierre portfolio.
The sales, the outlet sales that we have with McArthurGlen are very impressive. Japan, you see that in our 8-K. They
are very impressive, up about 7%, I think. Korea, a little bit – I'd say the only market that's a little soft is Korea, a little
bit because the – not that, not SARS, but whatever the last version was MARS, MERS, whatever and the Chinese
consumer there, probably going a little bit less to Korea for the time being. But I would say, Mexico sales are – we got
one asset. Canada is great. Toronto is terrific. Montreal's finding its market increasing. So generally, those centers are
very, very – we've been pleased with those results.
<Q - Steve Sakwa>: Okay. Thanks. And then I guess the second question, you sort of briefly touched on Klépierre, I
didn't really hear much on the call. But just how's the integration gone? How, if you were to kind of rank on a scale of 1
to 10 of all the things you want to do, where are you guys in the kind of process of transforming the combined
company?
<A - David E. Simon>: You mean with respect to Corio?
<Q - Steve Sakwa>: Yeah. Klépierre, Corio and just kind of overall business...?
<A - David E. Simon>: Well, I just want to – look, they bought Corio, we don't own them, so we're not integrating
with them. I just wanted to distinguish that. I would say, look, they've done – over the three years we've owned it,
they've done a lot of transformation, selling a bunch of stuff, buying a bunch of stuff. That's pretty much passed then.
The big focus next year is really operationally which they – through osmosis or, is improving their capabilities of doing
that and that's been the big focus.
I'd say in 2016, now that the integration with Corio is pretty much done, the sale of the big Kaufhof portfolio is done.
And so, I think it's going to be an operational story. But we're not operating the business, we're providing strategic
input. And I think they've done a very good job of gleaming whatever nuggets of strategy we are able to impart and
ignoring the ones that have no value because you know what, sometimes we don't have the right strategy. So, they're
doing a good job, but I think operationally, there's – I'd say they'd be the first to admit that they can continue to
improve just like we can, and I think that's a big focus for them in the upcoming years. But we're not integrating, I
mean, they're running their business.
Company Name: Simon Property
Company Ticker: SPG US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 15
<Q - Steve Sakwa>: I understand that. I'm just saying that, sitting as Chairman, you kind of can sit at the top and look
at what they're executing strategically and just trying to figure out how much of the play book has been done and how
much is left to do?
<A - David E. Simon>: Well, look, there's always a gap in terms of we might do things versus how they do things
there. They're not – I still think there's room where they could be operationally better. And that'll take longer for them
to achieve, but I have confidence that they will get there. And we'll help out as much as we can.
<Q - Steve Sakwa>: Okay. Thanks.
<A - David E. Simon>: They're pretty good and they're doing a good job.
Operator
Thank you for your question. The next question comes from the line of DJ Busch from Green Street Advisors. Please
go ahead.
<Q - Daniel Joseph Busch>: Thank you. Just a quick follow-up on Hudson's Bay partnership. Is the opportunity set to
do deals like a Kaufhof greater abroad versus here in the States? How do you see that investment growing from a
geographic perspective?
<A - David E. Simon>: Well, I think – I do think perhaps the international business may offer a few more
opportunities, but they are very creative folks, along with our resources, dedicated to it. So I wouldn't rule out domestic
opportunities, but I'd say maybe marginally more opportunities internationally than here. But I wouldn't rule out
domestic opportunities as well.
<Q - Daniel Joseph Busch>: And then is the joint venture open to kind of retail leaseback opportunities outside of the
traditional department stores as well?
<A - David E. Simon>: Sure. Yeah.
<Q - Daniel Joseph Busch>: Okay. And not to belabor the point on international, the softness in international tourism,
but The Mills' operating metrics were pretty impressive again, and things are obviously greatly influenced by Sawgrass.
Is that – similar to your comments on the Galleria, is Sawgrass one of those assets that kind of bucks the trend?
<A - David E. Simon>: Yeah, but we did see a little bit of softness there as well. So, I mean, it – all of these assets
buck the trend, but they might have – again, the retail sales, not the cash flow, may have some short-term impact. But
Sawgrass had a little bit of softness as well. It's not immune.
<Q - Daniel Joseph Busch>: Okay. Thank you.
<A - David E. Simon>: Okay. No worries.
Operator
Thank you for that. We have no further questions this time. So, I'd like to turn the call over to David Simon, Chief
Executive Officer, for closing remarks.
David E. Simon
Okay. Thank you so much, and we'll talk to you soon.
Company Name: Simon Property
Company Ticker: SPG US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 15
Operator
Thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes your presentation. You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.