Company Name: Colgate-Palmolive
Company Ticker: CL US
Date: 2015-10-30
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 16
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Bina H. Thompson
• Ian M. Cook
Other Participants
• Dara W. Mohsenian
• Wendy C. Nicholson
• Caroline S. Levy
• Ali Dibadj
• William G. Schmitz
• Jason M. English
• Olivia Tong
• Stephen R. Powers
• Christopher Ferrara
• Javier Escalante
• Joseph Nicholas Altobello
• Lauren Rae Lieberman
• John A. Faucher
• Alec Patterson
• Mark S. Astrachan
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Company's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference
Call. This call is being recorded and is being simulcast live at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
Today's conference will include forward-looking statements. These statements are made on the basis of the company's
views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance. Actual events or results may differ
materially from these statements. So for information about certain factors that could cause such differences, investors
should consult the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on Colgate's
website, including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements on
Forward-looking Statements.
This conference call will also include a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures, which differ from the company's
results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Colgate will discuss organic sales growth, which is net sales growth
excluding foreign exchange, acquisitions and divestitures. The company will also discuss gross profit, gross profit
margin, SG&A, SG&A as a percent of net sales, operating profit, operating profit margin, net income, and earnings per
share on a diluted basis excluding the impact of the items described in the press release. A full reconciliation of the
corresponding GAAP measures is included in the press release and is posted in the Investors section of Colgate's
website at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
Just as a reminder, there may be a slight delay before the question-and-answer session begins due to the web simulcast.
Company Name: Colgate-Palmolive
Company Ticker: CL US
Date: 2015-10-30
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 16
Now, for opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations, Bina
Thompson. Please go ahead, Bina.
Bina H. Thompson
Thank you, Kelly, and good morning, everybody. And welcome to our third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are Ian Cook, President, Chairman and CEO; Dennis Hickey, CFO; Victoria Dolan, Corporate
Controller; and Elaine Paik, Treasurer.
We're pleased with the continued solid organic sales growth. Of course, negative foreign exchange continues to be a
major challenge, but, as you'll hear, our market shares are strong and growing, one of the best indications of the health
of a business. Happily, gross profit margin increased in the quarter as a result of our funding-the-growth initiatives,
pricing actions and our Global Growth and Efficiency Program. Worldwide, our overhead costs are down on a dollar
basis.
Now while reported advertising was down on a dollar basis, we think we're getting good results from the dollars we
spend, both in-store and out. Digital advertising is growing. In fact, as an example, in Latin America, we are increasing
our investment in digital to better reach our younger audiences, as well as to drive engagement.
And as we focus on developing strategic collaborations with partners, such as Google and Facebook, we're better able
to measure the results of our investment. Marketing mix model studies from several countries across Latin America
show an ROI for digital investment that is three to four times higher than TV, confirming this shift is right to drive our
business.
Our balance sheet remains solid and we're making very good progress on working capital. So let's get right into the
divisions, starting with North America. Innovation continues to fuel our success in North America. As mentioned in the
press release, our market shares are up year-to-date in toothpaste, manual toothbrushes, mouthwash, liquid hand soap,
body wash and fabric conditioners. And this was true on a quarter-over-quarter comparison as well. At the same time,
we've seen a decline in private label shares in many of our categories, indicating the consumers' preference for branded
products and the strength of our equities.
In the toothbrush category, the launch of Colgate Total Daily Repair, supported by an engaging media campaign and
strong in-store shopper materials, has added incremental share to the baseline product. In the whitening segment, we
offer a full range of products, toothpaste, toothbrushes and mouthwash.
Our Colgate Optic White Toothpaste has grown share from 2.4% in the third quarter of 2011 to a 5.7% share in the
most recent quarter. Colgate Enamel Health has also seen good growth momentum, increasing a full share point
quarter-over-quarter.
Another exciting opportunity is the sensitivity segment, where we are a strong number two player. That segment has
seen a compound growth of 7.7% over the last four years, versus 2.8% for toothpaste overall.
In the mouthwash category, where our share is up year-to-date 20 basis points, both Colgate Total for Gum Health and
Colgate Enamel Health Mouthwash are picking up momentum. Our Colgate Total for Gum Health variant is the
number one new item in a leading retailer and receiving full support in-store.
In liquid hand soaps, our year-to-date share is up almost a full point to a leading 30.6%, while private label products
have declined almost two full points year-to-date, the lowest level in at least five years.
Premium offerings, such as Softsoap Fragrant Foaming Collection and Décor Collection, Foaming Hand Soap, offer
distinctive benefits. Similarly, Softsoap Fresh & Glow Body Wash with real extracts with a unique formula giving you
healthy looking skin that glows launched earlier this year has increased our share in that category by almost a full point
year-to-date.
Company Name: Colgate-Palmolive
Company Ticker: CL US
Date: 2015-10-30
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 16
Fabric conditioners also continued to perform well. Suavitel Fragrance Pearls In-Wash Scent Boosters, which provide
five-times longer-lasting fragrance versus detergent alone, which we told you about last quarter, has helped increase
our national share almost a full point year-to-date, now approaching 20% of the market. More trial-focused programs
are expected to drive further growth in the fourth quarter.
Now, as you'd expect, our new product grid is well populated, and we will share with you some more exciting
innovations slated for early 2016 on future calls.
Turning then to Europe/South Pacific; our business there is showing encouraging signs of recovery, with innovation
playing a critical role. Our market shares are up year-to-date in toothpaste, manual toothbrushes, body wash, shower
gels, underarm protection and fabric conditioners. In toothpaste, we're very excited about the early successes of our
launch of Colgate Max White Expert White toothpaste, the latest premium offering in this fast-growing segment.
Launched in the U.K. in June, it achieved a 2.7% share in August and was named the best new toiletries launch for
2015 by one of our larger drug retailers.
Two products under the elmex brand developed specifically for the pharmacy channel, elmex SENSITIVE
PROFESSIONAL and elmex ANTI-CARIES PROFESSIONAL, have driven our pharmacy share in France to a
leadership position of 26.3% year-to-date, and now ahead of the nearest competitor by 150 basis points.
In manual toothbrushes, our leading market share in Europe is up 130 basis points year-to-date to 24.6%, with our
nearest competitor down to 17.4%. Driving these excellent results has been the relaunch across the region of our
Colgate 360° Manual Toothbrush line. Priced at the super premium tier, these brushes deliver superior cleaning for a
whole mouth clean and have been supported by a full shopper program.
We're also very encouraged by our launch of Sanex Advanced range of body washes, underarm protection and body
and hand lotion. This innovation brings dermatological expertise for skin-specific needs to a third growth pillar for
Sanex, leading the brand towards a more professional approach en masse. Early results are excellent. Since launch,
Sanex is the fastest growing brand in both body washes and underarm, and in our top markets of France, Spain and the
U.K., our market shares are up in both categories.
In fabric conditioners, our market shares are up 20 basis points year-to-date to 24% across the European region, with
the most recent read at 24.5%. Contributing to this success is Soupline Fruity Sensations with a striking look and feel,
and new different and long-lasting fragrances. More innovation is planned across our categories for the rest of this year
and into 2016. Specifically, in Oral Care, we will be launching the Colgate Expert White Toothbrush and Built-in
Whitening Pen. Now, as you know, that product form has helped drive our manual toothbrush share to record highs
here in the U.S.
In toothpaste, we will be launching Colgate Total Proof. This innovation uses breakthrough color-change technology
that turns the white paste into a blue foam while brushing, giving consumers the confidence of the ultimate clean
feeling.
Turning then to Latin America, business across the region is solid. And, as elsewhere, innovation has driven market
share increases. Our regional market shares are up year-to-date in toothpaste, manual toothbrushes, mouthwash, toilet
soap, liquid soap, shampoo, hand/dish and liquid cleaners. And even in the face of some economic uncertainties in
countries such as Brazil, our categories still show solid local currency growth.
Our regional toothpaste share is up two full points year-to-date to 78.2%. In Brazil, our market share is up 50 basis
points year-to-date to 72%, the highest share in over 20 years and in the face of continued heightened competitive
activity. Colgate Total 12, relaunched in August with the positioning of, protects 100% of the surfaces of the mouth,
now has an 18.5% share in the most recent period.
In Mexico, our share is up 1 point year-to-date to 81.3%, with the most recent read at 81.6%, while our major
competitor shows continued share decline. Contributing to this success is our premium priced Colgate Luminous White
advanced; Colgate's most advanced whitening toothpaste formulated to intensify the whiteness of your teeth by three
shades.
Company Name: Colgate-Palmolive
Company Ticker: CL US
Date: 2015-10-30
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 16
In manual toothbrushes, our market share is up 230 basis points year-to-date to 45.4%, with the most recent read at
49.8%. In Mexico, we recently reintroduced our Colgate 360° line with a new packaging structure with premium
finishing and improved benefit communication, whole mouth clean with 151% more bad breath bacteria removal. As a
result, the Colgate 360° equity is up 110 basis points year-to-date, reaching a record 11.1% share.
Our leading year-to-date bar soap share is at 30.8%, with the most recent read at 32%. Record high shares were
achieved in Mexico, Colombia and Guatemala. And our two equities, Protex and Palmolive, continue to hold the
number one and two positions across the regions. In Mexico, where we have a strong Home Care business, our results
are excellent across the three sub categories; hand/dish, liquid cleaners and fabric conditioners. Our market shares are
up on a year-to-date basis, 230 basis points, 40 basis points and 150 basis points, respectively, to 52.6%, 33.5% and
48.4%.
So looking ahead, to further boost our leading manual toothbrush share, we are now in the process of launching Colgate
SlimSoft White with 17 times slimmer tip spiral bristles which provide both whitening and deep yet gentle cleaning.
An innovation launching now in fabric conditioners is Suavitel Goodbye Rinse, the market-leading Suavitel with an
improved no-rinse formula. And as you would expect, more innovation is planned for 2016 to continue the momentum
in this region.
Turning then to Asia, we're pleased with the strength of the business, particularly in our two largest markets, China and
India, which both delivered good volume growth. Category growth rates remain mid-single digit in China, while in
India our categories are growing as well. In India, our year-to-date toothpaste share is at almost 55% on a national basis
and close to 59% in rural markets. Our market leading manual toothbrush share is 43.6% year-to-date and our launch of
Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief Enamel Repair Toothpaste, while in its early days, is doing well.
Our Colgate 360° Charcoal Gold Toothbrush launched earlier in other Asian markets, is now contributing to the results
in India. This successful innovation, with antibacterial bristles, provides a whole mouth clean and has achieved strong
shares across the region in the most recent period; 1.4% in Hong Kong, 2.5% in the Philippines, 1.3% in Taiwan, and
almost a percent in Malaysia, and has been incremental in each market. More innovation is slated for this quarter and
beyond.
In China, we will be launching two new products developed to appeal to local consumer preferences. Colgate Power
White Lemon Salt Toothpaste for freshness and whitening experienced with a lemon and sea salt flavor and Colgate
360° Gold Ginseng gum care toothpaste, which contains ginseng essence and enhances the gum's power of defense.
Two popular Colgate Total variance, Charcoal Deep Clean and Pro Gum, will now be available in a gel format in
addition to the paste.
And in Thailand, in the Personal Care category, we're launching products for both men and women. For men, Protex
Men 3-in-1, an all-in-one body cleansing solution with antibacterial protection; and for women, Protex Intimate, with
antibacterial protection for long-lasting freshness and wellbeing sensation every day.
Africa/Eurasia. As you know, several of our larger markets in the Africa/Eurasia region have been facing major
currency headwinds. Despite the pricing actions we have taken to combat the currency headwinds, our organic sales
growth is holding at mid-single digits. Market shares are increasing and successful innovation is fueling our growth.
Our regional toothpaste share is up a full point year-to-date to almost 33%. In Russia, our share is up 230 basis points
year-to-date to 34.2%, hitting a record share of 35.1% in the most recent period. We recently launched Colgate
Maximum Cavity Protection with Sugar Acid Neutralizer, which has already reached a 0.7% share year-to-date and
contributed to the share gain. In South Africa, our share grew 150 basis points year-to-date to 50.2%, driven by a new
marketing campaign behind Colgate Total.
In toothbrushes, our share declined in only one country, and was up in the majority of our markets. In Russia, where we
achieved incremental listings in Russia's number one retailer, our toothbrush share grew 270 basis points year-to-date
to 48.1%, with the most recent read at 49.4%. And in Turkey, our share grew 10 basis points year-to-date to 28.6%,
with the most recent read at 29.7%. And in South Africa, our share was up 30 basis points year-to-date to 38.2%, with
the most recent read at 38.6%.
Company Name: Colgate-Palmolive
Company Ticker: CL US
Date: 2015-10-30
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 16
Our Bar Soap business continued with strong momentum in our two biggest markets, Russia and South Africa. The
recent introduction of Protex Men Power contributed to a regional share gain of 150 basis points year-to-date to almost
24%. More innovation is slated for this quarter.
Across the region, we will be relaunching our base Colgate Sensitive Toothpaste and our line of Plax Mouthwash. In
the Personal Care category, we will be launching a body wash occupying the new energizing segment for men's body
wash, Palmolive Men's Citrus Crush. It invites the consumer to experience an intense invigorating shower with
bergamot and grapefruit ingredients sourced from purest substances of nature and a sparkling citrus fragrance to spoil
the senses.
And Hill's; Hill's delivered another solid quarter of organic sales growth, with a good balance of volume and price.
Here in the U.S., superstore retail consumption showed a good increase. Innovation across Hill's Prescription Diet and
Hill's Science Diet, as well as volume growth in our Ideal Balance brand contributed to our good results. Our
Prescription Diet Metabolic Canine and Feline foods continued to gain share around the world.
Our new stews form has accelerated our growth in the Wet segment. We continue to receive endorsement from key
thought leaders. And the global rollout this year of Prescription Diet Metabolic Plus breakthrough dual efficacy food,
with nutrition clinically proven to address obesity and current conditions, has added to the momentum of the business.
It's now selling in 38 countries and has benefited from extensive sampling to drive awareness and trial. Our ongoing
global integrated marketing campaign includes professional print, online media, in-clinic seminars and
recommendation tools and testimonial videos to show case efficacy.
In our Wellness business, one of our newer launches, Hill's Science Diet Urinary and Hairball Control, is meeting with
excellent results, the only wellness food that addresses the two most common conditions in healthy cats. It was among
the top-three wet variance in the U.S. market during the first three months after its launch, and has a very high star
rating on Amazon.com. It's been the product focus for our nutritional consultants at PetSmart and Petco and has
received good in-store activation feedback. Building on our success in the U.S., it has just been launched in Europe.
And as we look into 2016, there is more exciting innovation news, which we will discuss with you on future calls.
So in summary, we're pleased with the continued, solid, organic sales growth and market share gains around the world.
Our innovation pipeline is as full as ever, and our savings programs are on track. Colgate people around the world
continue to focus on our four strategic initiatives delivering consistent results. So we look forward to sharing our results
with you as we finish the year.
And now, Kelly, I should like to turn it over for questions.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. Today's question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically for the telephone audience. [Operator
Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
<Q - Dara W. Mohsenian>: Good morning, guys.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Hey, Dara.
<Q - Dara W. Mohsenian>: So first, Ian, just a detailed question. I think last quarter, you'd indicated in local currency
advertising will be roughly flat year-over-year as a percent of sales in 2015. Is that still the case? How are you thinking
about that line item? And then the real question on that front is, it's now been six quarters in a row where A&P has been
down substantially as a percent of sales. I know you've indicated before, it's been funneled back into promotion, which
has been effective given the market share performance. But the level of pullback in A&P is really striking relative to
your traditional – traditionally the way you've run the business. So, I guess, what gives you confidence this won't come
back to bite you in the long run in terms of lower demand going forward, particularly given the macro situation out
Company Name: Colgate-Palmolive
Company Ticker: CL US
Date: 2015-10-30
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 16
there right now?
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Yeah, thanks, Dara. As you might imagine, not an unexpected question. And in answering it, as
you did, let's take a little bit broader perspective and then come back to your specific question. So the world we're
dealing in today in terms of our categories, so I'm talking Colgate businesses now and the categories in which we do
business, not the macroeconomic scene, we have a world where our categories are growing between 0% and 2% in the
developed world, in Europe at the low end of that, and in the U.S. at the upper end of that 0% to 2% growth. In the
emerging markets, through this call, the growth rates in our categories continue to be mid-single digits generally.
And our objective, business objective, in that arena has been to have a sustainable rate of growth organically in that 4%
to 7% range that we mentioned at the beginning of the year, which we think we continue into the third quarter. And we
continue to talk about 4% to 7% for the year. And indeed, as we think about 2016, we begin our budgeting process with
the same ambition next year. And the way you get that consistent rate of growth is by building your brands. And you
build your brands as measured in market share. And as we choose investment vehicles to build those brands, you're
focusing on trial and repeat purchase of our new innovation and our existing businesses. And don't forget, in many of
these emerging markets, consumer behavior is challenged by local category conditions in those markets, and in-store
engagement can be more persuasive than what we were all educated as being proper advertising investment.
So we balance and like to think we invest smartly in traditional media, the traditional television, magazine, radio,
sampling devices that would be in that advertising number, with an increasing shift, as Bina pointed out, to digital,
digital being both lower cost and a better rate of return. And frankly, take Latin America, where millennials are now the
predominant parent generation, a better way of engaging with that target group. And then as you indicated, Dara, the
in-store work that we do that in these volatile times can be particularly powerful. Now all of that said, as we think about
going forward and we begin our process for the budget in 2016, even though we haven't yet fully begun that process, if
we look at the array of innovation we have over the next three years, starting in 2016, I think it would be safe to say
that our expectation would be that our traditional advertising ratios would be up in 2016.
<Q - Dara W. Mohsenian>: Okay. And is that on a local currency basis, or that's overall company? And also, can you
give us a sense of where you kind of leave 2015 in terms of the ad ratio?
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Well, the ad ratio will be – according to our current plans for 2015, will be up quarter-on-quarter
for the balance of the year. And now, I'm talking income statement, so I'm talking dollar. And if you think about 2016, I
think at this stage, the expectation would be dollar and, of course, therefore local currency, given what I think most
believe will be an improving, or at least a less bad, foreign exchange environment.
<Q - Dara W. Mohsenian>: Okay. Thank you.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Thank you.
Operator
We'll move next to Wendy Nicholson with Citigroup.
<Q - Wendy C. Nicholson>: Hi.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Hi, Wendy.
<Q - Wendy C. Nicholson>: First of all, Bina, you talked about the Brazilian competitive environment as still being
fairly intense. But can you talk a little bit more qualitatively? Is that more price-based competition? Is there more
advertising? Is there more innovation, just fighting for shelf on space? Or – just I know your shares are good, but
directionally what are you seeing there? And then just separately housekeeping on Hill's, can you remind us what the
split is U.S. versus international sales now for Hill's and maybe in the quarter, how sales performance differed by
region? Thank you.
Company Name: Colgate-Palmolive
Company Ticker: CL US
Date: 2015-10-30
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 16
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Yeah. The Brazil – I don't actually recall Bina's language, but frankly, the Brazilian environment
hasn't become particularly more competitive than historically. It continues to be a competitive marketplace to be sure,
but again, back to my answer to Dara, we with the programs we have and the innovation we have, we see our market
shares continuing to grow. And at 72%, as Bina said, it's the highest in the last 20 years with our principal competitors
both down. So frankly, at this stage, whatever the threats are in the marketplace, we seem to be meeting them.
If we turn to your second question, which was around Hill's, I think it would be fair to say in broad terms that Hill's is
about a 50%-50% U.S. domestic-international business split.
<Q - Wendy C. Nicholson>: And the trends internationally versus in the U.S. in terms of growth for Hill's similar?
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Similar. Yes. I mean, the innovation moves from the U.S. around the world, and I'm pleased to
say things like Metabolic and Metabolic Plus are having similar impacts wherever we take them. So, yes.
<Q - Wendy C. Nicholson>: Terrific. Thank you.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Thank you.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
<Q - Caroline S. Levy>: Great. And I'm sorry, I hopped on a little late, but I'm wondering if you addressed Venezuela
and the decision not to sort of take it to worst case scenario in the earnings, unless I missed something there?
<A - Ian M. Cook>: No, you didn't, Caroline. And I'm sure many of you have not yet had the chance to get to our Q,
which was posted earlier this morning. But as you well know from the financial literature and the decisions that one
makes in this space, any decision that we would take to deconsolidate would be driven by our inability on an ongoing
basis to get dollars, or if we faced additional restrictions on our ability to make local operating decisions on the ground,
clearly these are things that we revisit quarter upon quarter. And we duly did so for this quarter, Caroline, but based on
our facts and circumstances and the assessment we made, we have chosen to keep reporting Venezuela this quarter.
And of course, that is a subject that we will revisit period-by-period as time goes on.
<Q - Caroline S. Levy>: And of the 12% pricing in Latin America then, can you say how much is Venezuela?
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Well, remember, the government approved pricing that we got in Venezuela, which I think was
around 70%-plus, 74% if I remember correctly, that was in the fourth quarter of last year. So obviously, you have the
rollover effect. There is some pricing obviously we get for the non-regulated businesses, but I would tell you that we
are getting pricing across Latin America from Mexico down to Argentina.
<Q - Caroline S. Levy>: Thank you very much.
Operator
We'll go next to Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
<Q - Ali Dibadj>: Hey, guys.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Hey, Ali.
<Q - Ali Dibadj>: Hey. I wanted to ask again about kind of why you are confident that you're striking the right balance
in terms of volume versus margins for the long term? And so take – maybe in two dimensions. One, take as the move
more and more to in-store promotions, in-store displays, doesn't that suggest that the consumer is making more and
more decisions at the shelf? And that's been a trend going on for a while. Seems like it's accelerating. So does that
reduce your – essentially competitive advantage over the long term? Because I think it's tough to really differentiate
Company Name: Colgate-Palmolive
Company Ticker: CL US
Date: 2015-10-30
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 16
yourself as much in-store as one could do through traditional media as an example. Perhaps online, although I'd say that
the ROI there is still pretty iffy, because there's no long-term history. So how do you balance that? Is that – are you
setting yourself up in a tougher situation by pushing more in-store for the long term, given you're trying to differentiate
your brand?
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Very good and deep question, Ali, as usual. The answer is it's not either/or. And I think if you
were to go back to, again, the days when many of us made our marketing bones, in-store activity was pretty
rudimentary. There was a cardboard display stuck at the end of the shelf with a $0.99-off flag on it, hardly brand
building in nature. And that is why everybody has this aversion, if you will, to in-store investment versus the supposed
quality of the engagement we get from the traditional media, understanding that that world today is so fragmented that
it is less precise than perhaps many of us believed historically. So, no. Obviously, you don't find yourself in a place
where all of your engagement with consumer happens at the retail level.
But with the data available to us today, with the techniques available to us today, with some of the in-store engagement
materials available to us today, which are brand and benefit and therapy, open brackets, Colgate specific, including
sometimes the coloring of the shelves that house Oral Care products at retail, that is a wonderful environment to get
consumers to make that final decision, particularly if they are in a stressed, highly devalued geography. You still have
the advertising – and we can debate traditional versus digital – that is making the awareness connection and seeking to
provoke the trial, but you miss everything if you don't engage with that consumer when they come to that store to make
sure the trial engendered is for your product. So yes, it is a balance. So it is not a journey to everything at retail, but I
think that historical perceptions of what you can do at retail and frankly a prejudice that says what you do do at retail is
by definition not brand building, I'm afraid it's a little bit old-school.
<Q - Ali Dibadj>: So besides that I am old, and I am old-school, do you...
<A - Ian M. Cook>: As am I, by the way.
<Q - Ali Dibadj>: But do you think – so I understand engaging at shelf. I mean, you guys have seen it, you guys have
done it very well. The Brazilian [indiscernible] (33:27) I struggle with that being not – that being differentiated. So
feeling that that's probably easier to copy with a little bit of spend in-store, with a little bit of more discussion with the
merchant in-store, than really good copy, right? And whether that be digital or not. And it sounds like you don't even
think that's the case. It's not as copyable in-store.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: No, Ali, again, take Latin America, think about our market share, and think about how much of
that shelf we have. Then think about red. Then think about a program that may take a local dentist with an incentive to
go to a store and buy Colgate that is hitting you in the face with a therapeutic health message, so you're coming in
provoked by the dentist and Colgate is engaging you at shelf. A competitor can spend more money; they're not going to
get that presence at retail. So I would argue, it is differentiating and the presence you have at retail with the market
shares we have in our specific categories come back to the more fragmented media market. You can argue which is
more likely to get the consumers' attention. Having said that, I am still old-school and I agree with you, good copy is
very important part of a marketing mix. But it's a marketing mix, I would argue, it is not simply more of the store, but
everything on media. Things are much more balanced.
<Q - Ali Dibadj>: Okay. Thanks.
Operator
We'll go next to Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
<Q - William G. Schmitz>: Hi, Ian, good morning.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Hey, Bill.
<Q - William G. Schmitz>: Hey. Have you thought about doing something inorganic? It's been a while since you guys
have looked at acquisitions. And it seems like the industry is clearly changing very rapidly. There's obviously a lot of
Company Name: Colgate-Palmolive
Company Ticker: CL US
Date: 2015-10-30
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 16
activist interest. There's this big focus on cost cutting. And it seems like you're pretty deeply penetrated, especially in
Oral Care. So, is there anything out there that you guys would think about at this juncture that would maybe better
leverage some of your distribution infrastructure?
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Yeah, I mean, it's clearly a very good question, Bill, and obviously were I to answer it, I'd have to
kill you. The – so I think the headline would be – I think we're very thoughtful and we're very strategic about
acquisition. You have seen that, I think, in those things that we have acquired. We are always strategically open to the
right acquisition at the right time. As you know, these things are a little bit a process of serendipity however much you
woo and pursue, and then we are also very disciplined on valuation. You have to live with what you buy for the
betterment of the company over the long haul. So I think my answer would be, we're as interested in acquisitions as we
were in Sanex and Gerber and Tom's and the Laser Brand in Myanmar. And if more were to become available, and the
price was right, you'd see us as interested going forward as we have been over our recent past. But I wouldn't make it a
tilting point now versus previously.
<Q - William G. Schmitz>: Okay, great. Can I just ask a follow-up?
<A - Ian M. Cook>: You may.
<Q - William G. Schmitz>: Okay. Thank you. I'm asking to read the tea leaves here, but are there any signs that we're
bottoming in emerging markets? I know the category growth rates are still fairly healthy. But almost all of it is driven
by price and mix. If you look at some of the – like the scan volume data, it's flat to up very slightly. So most of that's
inflationary pricing with the absence of a local competitor. So – like do you have any thoughts on kind of when we
really start to see consumption come back?
<A - Ian M. Cook>: I think in terms of physical consumption – first of all, some of these markets are growing in
volume terms, so it's not everywhere. But you're right. When pricing is very aggressive, needs as must from a dollar
point of view, that tends to depress volume in the short haul. So without being glib, I think my answer would be once
the necessary wave of pricing is behind us, and everybody else that's taking pricing, I think you can expect the balance
between price and volume to move back more on to the volume side of the equation. When exactly that will be, is
difficult to tell. I would certainly say it will be no earlier than next year.
<Q - William G. Schmitz>: Okay. Great. Thanks so much.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Sure.
Operator
We'll go next to Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Hey, Jason.
<Q - Jason M. English>: Hey, good morning.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Good morning.
<Q - Jason M. English>: Thank you for the question. I want to come back to the investment questions against the
consumer. So a two-part question, one, it sounds like you believe we're in an environment where shifting more to trade
makes sense, given the shopper marketing components and the ways of engaging the consumer there. And digital, of
course, is playing a larger role. With that said, is it fair to assume that the measurable A&P line in your income
statement, we should expect that ratio to sales to remain lower than it has been historically? And secondly, as you move
to trade and move to essentially a contra-revenue line item that we can't see in the P&L, it becomes a little hard to
measure, for us to see. So can you give us a sense, so if we were able to group both trade and measurable A&P together
and look at that as a percentage of sales, how that may be changing year-to-date versus prior year?
Company Name: Colgate-Palmolive
Company Ticker: CL US
Date: 2015-10-30
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 16
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Yeah, the latter is difficult to do, Jason, because one comes off gross and the other is measured
against net. So what I can tell you is that what you are calling trade spending is up this year. But to come back to your
more fundamental question, a few things. Number one, this notion of shopper marketing is not a third quarter 2015
comment. We have been trying to make this point unsuccessfully for the last two years to three years for the reasons I
detailed a little bit earlier. We believe well done, it is part of building brands.
Number two, you're right. Digital, I think, will become an important way to target and reach different consumer groups
going forward, and that carries with it a different dollar to the traditional media. But, no, I would not take the notion
that forever going forward our traditional media-to-sales percentage, the one you do see will be lower and stay lower.
That, as I said earlier in response to a question, I think will be driven by the innovation spread that we have. And as I
said earlier, even though we haven't finished the budget process, actually we haven't even started the budget process,
but when you look at our innovation grid for next three years starting in 2016, I think my expectation would be that you
will see that ratio head back up a little bit in 2016. So it will move around. I'm just trying to assert that there's no good
and bad. It's all in the marketing mix, and they are all legitimate ways of engaging with consumers. And particularly in
volatile times with high devaluations, that closure, if you will, with the consumer on sale in those highly deval'ed
emerging markets happens in that retail environment.
<Q - Jason M. English>: Thank you. So can you help me understand why it's hard to give us a sense of the trade spend
number? I mean, you know the number. Instead of dividing it by gross, you could just divide it by net to sort of give us
the ratio. Am I oversimplifying it by thinking about it that way?
<A - Ian M. Cook>: No. No, you're not. We haven't done that. Let us think about that. We could do that. It is then a
created number.
<Q - Jason M. English>: Sure. Okay. Well, thank you very much.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Sure.
Operator
We'll move next to Olivia Tong with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
<Q - Olivia Tong>: Great. Thanks.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Hi, Olivia.
<Q - Olivia Tong>: How are you? So just on advertising, you've mentioned it should go up next year, but do you think
this level was abnormally low and you'll see a big move upwards next year? Or is it a plan for sort of up, but not
materially so in 2016? And what are you seeing in terms of the decision on a promo versus advertising from your major
competitors? Because I ask in the context of Procter sort of shifting some of their – trying to realize more margin
potentially at the detriment of sales in some cases. Thanks.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Well, first of all, I have tried to explain the third quarter this year. It is a quarter I wouldn't obsess
about it. I don't think it's abnormally low, and therefore as we approach our 2016 budget, we're saying, oh, we need to
get it back up to X or Y level. I do believe – we do believe that with the richness of innovation we have, the expectation
will be that it will be up. How much it will be up, we will know when we finish our budgeted process.
Now as you look around the world, and something I elected not to say, lest one sounds defensive, but as you go around
the world, in many parts of the world, you continue to see many of our multinational competitors pull back on
traditional advertising quite substantially. And in many of our key markets, even if you take the old-fashioned measure
of share of voice, we remain just on the face of it quite competitive.
Now, we have seen some corroborating signals of certain businesses exited by competitors in order to realize price.
You see the public information in India, and you see that in the marketplace. But if we take the breadth of our business,
there's nothing I would point to say the shape of the promotional environment that we're in has meaningfully changed.
Company Name: Colgate-Palmolive
Company Ticker: CL US
Date: 2015-10-30
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 16
<Q - Olivia Tong>: Got it. If I can just move to restructuring, are you pushing harder on the initiatives you've already
outlined? Or these new areas that you'll be exploring? And will this result in more savings starting in 2016, or is it just
an extension to another year of savings? And as you think about reinvestment versus dropping to the bottom line, are
there any shifts there in terms of how you think about this new tranche of restructuring savings?
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Yeah. So let's take a step back, Olivia. Clearly, when we began this program, which, by the way,
is a lot shorter than many of our competitors, but when we began the program, we had three key areas. And we said at
the beginning that it was a Global Growth and Efficiency Program and that it was a journey. So we were establishing
hubs and we were establishing business service centers, and we were transferring, lifting and shifting, if you will,
capabilities to the new structure that we were building that was supported by SAP across our company.
So this gives us the opportunity to transform a little bit what we are doing with the new structure that we are creating,
and do it in a time-bound window of 2017, rather than extending it over a longer period. So it is very definitely still
within the three areas that we defined at the beginning of the restructuring, no new areas. It is definitely one more year.
And as we said in the release, we'll be coming back to you early in the New Year with fleshed-out ranges of costs for
the program and savings. So on that one, we'll be back to you in the New Year.
<Q - Olivia Tong>: Thank you.
Operator
We'll go next to Steve Powers with UBS.
<Q - Stephen R. Powers>: Great, thanks. I guess just two cleanups on topics already discussed, Ian, on Venezuela,
acknowledging that every situation is different, is it fair to assess at least the likelihood of deconsolidation rising on the
margin? It feels that way from the outside. I just want to get your perspective on that.
And then second, back to the restructuring that Olivia asked about, should we be thinking about more opportunity in
this next wave building on the hubbing thread, shared services. Or is there a focused area within the three that is going
be of added weight? I'm just trying to get a sense for where the incremental focus will go, either in terms of focus
stream or geography. Thanks.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Yeah. On your Venezuela comment, all I can say, Steve, is that this is something we revisit
quarter-by-quarter based on the facts and circumstances that present themselves in each of the quarters, and we will
continue to do that. So I really and specifically do not want to shade how we're thinking about it. We will be resolutely
objective and make whatever decisions we think are appropriate based on the facts and circumstances at the time.
Now when you turn to the restructuring, I would say simplistically, and we will be back with richer commentary next
year, I would say specifically what we're talking about are activities that will be more transformational in how we use
the hubs we have created and how we use the service centers we have created more fulsomely. And I'd hold it there at
this stage. So it is greater utilization around the basic structures that we will have fully established by next year.
<Q - Stephen R. Powers>: Okay, great. We shall stay tuned. Thank you.
Operator
We'll go next to Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Chris?
Operator
Company Name: Colgate-Palmolive
Company Ticker: CL US
Date: 2015-10-30
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 16
Please check your mute button.
<Q - Christopher Ferrara>: Oh, sorry about that.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: I thought it was something I said.
<Q - Christopher Ferrara>: No. The SG&A excluding advertising in the quarter looks like it picked up maybe by 100
basis points year-on-year or so. Can you go through a little bit what might have driven that? I mean, is that some of the
shift to in-store? Are there certain promotional activities...
<A - Ian M. Cook>: No, no, no. Chris, that is straightforward leverage. Our overhead – our dollar overheads were
actually down year-on-year with the benefits we're getting from the restructuring program. But there is a lot of
overhead that is dollar denominated, and when you have the downward pressure of 13% foreign exchange on the top
line, you end up with a leverage negative. And it is entirely traceable to that negative leverage.
<Q - Christopher Ferrara>: Okay. I guess, then, the follow up to that would be, why didn't we see it nearly to that
extent last quarter when it was probably a pretty similar dynamic around the top line drivers?
<A - Ian M. Cook>: I don't know. The only other mix in it is the mix of countries. So it may have been a country mix
issue. We'll have to get back to you on that. I don't have the answer at my fingertips.
<Q - Christopher Ferrara>: Okay. Thank you.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Sure.
Operator
We'll go next to Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
<Q - Javier Escalante>: Good morning, everyone. Actually my clarification has to do with Chris', because it seems
like headquarter expenses run the highest since 2009, and I was surprised because of the hubbing. And is this Forex, or
is something else going on in that line? And I do have a question with regards to commercial spending and category
growth, if I can. Thank you.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: The, what do you call it, corporate overhead is flat. So as I answered before on this quarter, it's
definitely leverage. And your question on spending is?
<Q - Javier Escalante>: I know basically in the past – and we know that the fact that these market shares are up across
the board in Oral Care, it shouldn't be a huge change. But essentially in the past when advertising has been down, there
have been commentary regarding aggregate commercial spending, which includes trade spending. And trade spending
is typically in magnitude two to three times advertising. So could you tell us whether the aggregate of commercial
spending is up or not? And in the case of category, you mentioned that the category has kind of like bottomed out. This
is in reference to Bill Schmitz's question. So my – could you clarify whether – is it that the category we are seeing
negative mix because of the price increase, or actual volumes have slowed down? Because it seems as if considering all
the market share gains, all the pricing that you're taking in Oral Care that organic sales could have been better. So sorry
for the too many questions. Thank you.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Well, the Oral Care organic sales were better than the company average, number one. Number
two, in terms of total spending, you're right, the trade spending as a ratio is a multiple of over three times the traditional
advertising spending. And relative to the category growth rates, Bill's question was to do with volume. And my answer
to the question was – this balance between volume and price, and he was asking whether the volume was bottoming out
and would come back. And I think the answer we gave was, you would expect that balance to come back once the
higher pricing that is being taken had worked its way through, and that we didn't expect that to be earlier than 2016.
<Q - Javier Escalante>: But if I may, so the question that I have is based on your assessment, are you seeing – when
you talk about volumes, there is this interplay between mix and actual tonnage, if you will. So my question is whether
Company Name: Colgate-Palmolive
Company Ticker: CL US
Date: 2015-10-30
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 16
because of the price increases, you are seeing negative mix within Colgate's portfolio? Thank you.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Yeah. And the answer is, we're not going to get into that level of detail.
<Q - Javier Escalante>: Okay.
Operator
We'll go next to Joe Altobello with Raymond James.
<Q - Joseph Nicholas Altobello>: Thanks. Hey, good morning, Ian.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Hey, Joe.
<Q - Joseph Nicholas Altobello>: Just had a question on pricing in Latin America. It sounds like in your answer to
Javier that you're waiting on some of your competitors to match on the price increases you guys have taken. And I'm
just curious, when you talk about your competitors in Latin America, are they mostly local competitors who don't have
the same currency headwinds that you guys are facing right now, or are they more multinationals who do have the same
currency headwinds?
<A - Ian M. Cook>: We have both. The local tend to be more country-specific, Colombia and Mexico. So they tend to
be both. And if I said it, then I apologize, I didn't mean to say it, we're not waiting on anybody. We have been taking
pricing in Latin America and I would further say when you look at the breakdown of raw materials in today's world,
many of those raw materials are dollar denominated. So even the local competitor is going to be hit with the local
currency transaction impact of raw materials coming into the country. So I would say that the incentive to price is fairly
elevated across the board.
<Q - Joseph Nicholas Altobello>: Okay, that was my question. Yeah, I was trying to get to when they would follow
your lead essentially on the pricing side, so--. And then on the follow-up in terms of advertising spending, I know
we've beaten this to death a little bit here, but can you give us a sense for what U.S. advertising did in the quarter
year-over-year? Thanks.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: No, we don't – again, we're not going to get into that level of country-by-country detail.
<Q - Joseph Nicholas Altobello>: Okay. Thank you.
Operator
We'll go next to Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
<Q - Lauren Rae Lieberman>: Thanks. Good morning. I was hoping you could talk a little bit about Europe, actually
this is with organic sales being down this quarter. It's actually the first time we've seen that in quite a while. So big
deceleration in volume. And my understanding is there's been quite a bit of premium-based innovation going into
markets – surprised to see volume, which we know is volume and mix, be so light. So if you could just talk a little bit
about Europe that would be great. Thank you.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Yeah, I think when you look at the European environment; obviously it's our lowest growth area
of the world. I think the good news is that although pricing has been consistently negative in Europe. If you look at the
three quarters this year, it has become positively less negative. Unfortunately, we had the volume negative in the third
quarter. And I would say, we would say that that is going to come back, and we're certainly planning for positive
organic growth going forward.
<Q - Lauren Rae Lieberman>: Were there any particular big buckets of product launch disappointment? It's a pretty
significant change in trend, on volume.
Company Name: Colgate-Palmolive
Company Ticker: CL US
Date: 2015-10-30
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 16
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Yeah, the only thing I would comment to, Lauren, is that we had a situation in our Europe West
grouping which is essentially our Germanic grouping, which had to do with the transfer to a new distribution center
which disrupted the shipments of that operation, specifically in the quarter. So I think – I think, I know, Europe was in
part affected by that on the volume side which we see; A, as a one time, and B, already corrected and coming back in
the fourth quarter. But it did have an effect beyond the usual market travails in Europe.
<Q - Lauren Rae Lieberman>: Okay. That's helpful. And then just similarly on Latin America, it's pretty rare to see
volume go negative. I mean, look, I understand the pricing environment obviously and then volumes have been light,
but it is rare to see volume go negative. So just thoughts on what comes next there? Understanding shares have been
solid, and market growth you said is kind of stuck in the mid-single digit.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Yeah. I – again, you're right. It has to do with the pricing. You can see that the pricing, of course,
is more elevated than the prior two quarters in Latin America. And we took strong pricing in Brazil, which had an
impact on volume. And usually the way that works is that, as I said earlier, once the pricing works its way through, then
the volume comes back. The categories are still growing mid-single digits, so we hope things stay to the normal cycle
of events.
<Q - Lauren Rae Lieberman>: Okay. Thank you. And then just so the call doesn't end without anyone asking, could
you share the gross margin bridge for the quarter? It would be great.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: No.
<Q - Lauren Rae Lieberman>: But then my model breaks down.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Okay. So third quarter, the prior year gross profit was 58.6%. We got 140 basis points positive
from pricing. Between our funding-the-growth savings and the restructuring, we got favorable 270 basis points. So
funding-the-growth continuing to do very well. On material pricing, there was a headwind of 390 basis points, and so
the offset of the resulting 120 basis points negative to the 140 basis points on pricing gets you the plus 20 basis points.
And meaningfully, over half of the 390 basis points negative was to do with the transaction impact of foreign exchange.
<Q - Lauren Rae Lieberman>: Okay. Thank you so much.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Sure.
Operator
We'll move next to John Faucher with JPMorgan.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Hey, John.
<Q - John A. Faucher>: Yeah. Good morning, Ian or I guess it's afternoon now. So I'll try to keep this quick. One
clarification, which is, I think you said that Venezuela pricing was up 74%, and if I look at that, that would be pretty
much all of the Latin America pricing, right?
<A - Ian M. Cook>: No, no, no, John. Sorry. What I said was, the official price increase that we were granted was
74% in the fourth quarter of last year. So – yeah, on some businesses. So that is...
<Q - John A. Faucher>: Okay. On some – okay.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Yeah, yeah.
<Q - John A. Faucher>: Got it. Okay, that's what I thought. I just wanted to make sure. And then as we look out – and
I know you guys don't want to get into quarterly stuff here, but as we look out, it is a more difficult comparison as we
look into the fourth quarter. Just sequentially, do you feel like more of the pricing flows through? Or again, not looking
for specific guidance, but it seems like sort of the lower end of your 4% to 7% range is probably the right way to be for
the fourth quarter. Is that the right way to think about it?
Company Name: Colgate-Palmolive
Company Ticker: CL US
Date: 2015-10-30
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 16
<A - Ian M. Cook>: I'm not sure I would go all the way there, John. I think we're comfortable with the 4% to 7%
range. I think your sense of pricing is right. We still have recovery to move the gross margin, because to get to flat on
the year, we have to be – as you will calculate from the squeeze, we have to be up on the quarter. So it will be within
our range. I think we're thinking, if you take the nine months, it would be kind of around there.
<Q - John A. Faucher>: Okay. Excellent. Thank you very much.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Sure.
Operator
We'll go next to Alec Patterson with AGI.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Hey, Alec.
<Q - Alec Patterson>: Hi, Ian. So just a couple of quick ones. In the specialty pet channel, have you seen much in the
way of a deflationary impact due to lower commodity costs, which seem to be impacting the mass channel? Has that
flowed into that channel for you? And then secondly, just curious about the cash you've been building, the cash
sources. Are you able to repatriate, like you've been able to do in the past, the cash generation, especially in the
emerging markets, back to the U.S.? Or is most of that locked into those markets?
<A - Ian M. Cook>: On the first – again, without being glib – the answer is a simple no, particularly in our segment of
the Pet Nutrition business, which tends be the more premium end. So we have not seen it creep into specialty. Cash
repatriation, Venezuela is Venezuela. Absent Venezuela, it's the same as it has always been. So we have the ability to
repatriate, sometimes timing is variable country by country, but no change from prior.
<Q - Alec Patterson>: Okay, great. Thank you.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Sure.
Operator
We'll take our last question from Mark Astrachan with Stifel.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Hey, Mark.
<Q - Mark S. Astrachan>: Hey, Ian. So going back to the advertising, I guess the effectiveness of digital would seem
to vary by category for various reasons. So I'm curious, assuming if there's some truth to that, are there specific
categories in which ad spend is still up year-on-year, or up greater than it appears to be, and maybe talk directionally
about it, category by category, if you can?
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Yeah. I probably could, but I'm not going to. I don't think, Mark. Because we're not going to get
into that level of detail. I would say to your general point on digital, it's less category-specific, although the category
may be linked to the user, it's more which user you're trying to get to and how they access. We just went through an
extensive review, for example, in Latin America. Majority of viewers millennials. They happen to be a growing
majority of parents, they happen to do an awful lot on Facebook, and they happen to be avid viewers of YouTube
video. So if you want to connect with that group, then the best way to get your advertising message to that group is
YouTube videos, and to do so in a way that is purpose-driven. So if you were to Google all of that, you'd see some
pretty interesting work from our point of view, but it tends to be more driven by the viewer than it does by the category.
<Q - Mark S. Astrachan>: Got it. Thank you.
<A - Ian M. Cook>: Okay. We're good? Oh, sorry, is that it?
Company Name: Colgate-Palmolive
Company Ticker: CL US
Date: 2015-10-30
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 16 of 16
Operator
That is.
Ian M. Cook
Okay. Then, thank you all for your questions, and thanks to all the Colgate people around the world that deliver the
results. Thank you, everybody.
Operator
That does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.