Company Name: American Electric
Company Ticker: AEP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 18
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Bette Jo Rozsa
• Nicholas K. Akins
• Brian X. Tierney
Other Participants
• Dan L. Eggers
• Greg Gordon
• Anthony C. Crowdell
• Praful Mehta
• Paul Patterson
• Julien Dumoulin-Smith
• Stephen Calder Byrd
• Hugh D. Wynne
• Paul T. Ridzon
• Shahriar Pourreza
• Andrew Levi
• Ali Agha
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the American Electric Power Third Quarter 2015
Earnings Call. At this time, all lines are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given to you at that time. [Operator Instructions] And as a reminder, today's conference call is
being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Bette Jo Rozsa. Please go ahead.
Bette Jo Rozsa
Thank you, Cynthia. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the third quarter 2015 earnings call for American
Electric Power. We're glad that you're able to join us today. Our earnings release, presentation slides and related
financial information are available on our website at aep.com.
Today, we will be making forward-looking statements during the call. There are many factors that may cause future
results to differ materially from these statements. Please refer to our SEC filings for a discussion of these factors.
Joining me this morning for opening remarks are Nick Akins, our Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer;
and Brian Tierney, our Chief Financial Officer. We will take your questions following their remarks. I will now turn
the call over to Nick.
Company Name: American Electric
Company Ticker: AEP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 18
Nicholas K. Akins
Thanks, Bette Jo. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining the AEP's third quarter 2015 earnings call. Once
again, AEP is reporting a strong quarter performance, driven by the strength of our regulated utilities and our
transmission businesses, and as a result, we're also increasing our 2015 guidance as well. For the third quarter 2015,
AEP is reporting GAAP and operating earnings of $1.06 per share compared with $1.01 per share for third quarter
2014. This brings 2015 year-to-date GAAP and operating earnings to $3.22 per share and $3.21 per share respectively
compared with 2014 year-to-date GAAP and operating earnings of $2.95 per share.
With the positive quarterly and year-to-date results in hand, AEP is increasing our 2015 guidance range from $3.50 to
$3.65 per share to $3.67 to $3.77 per share and reaffirming our 4% to 6% growth rate. As you already know, the board
of AEP increased the dividend from $0.53 to $0.56 per share, representing a 5.7% increase on an annualized basis,
indicating once again confidence in the direction we are taking to become The Next Premium Regulated Utility, the tag
line we used at last year's EEI Financial Conference.
While load was also up in all three sectors, residential, commercial, and industrial; for third quarter year-on-year, we
continue to analyze the makeup of loads and margins of each sector, as Brian will discuss in more detail later.
Our employees focused on continuous improvement and culture initiatives. They've been instrumental in not only
achieving our earnings objectives, but redesigning our lines of businesses for future success. Lean activities continue to
progress across the enterprise. This has been a three-year effort of what is now over 65 initial three-month to
four-month deployment efforts, generating over 20,000 ideas from employees to improve efficiency and deliver better
outcomes.
We're in the process of finishing up the few remaining deployments and we'll begin a process of ensuring the
sustainability of the cultural and process related changes that enable continuous improvement. It is because of primarily
these efforts, along with investment growth in the regulated companies and transmission, as well as the outcomes from
the PJM supplemental auctions that have improved our confidence regarding 2016. More to come on that in November
at the EEI Financial Conference.
As you know, we announced the sale of AEP River Operations to American Commercial Lines for approximately $550
million, plus the assumption of capital lease obligations of approximately $235 million. We're very pleased with the
outcome from the process we began back in March to sell river ops at a fair price to a company we truly believe
understands what it takes to be successful on the river. AEP will receive about $400 million in net cash proceeds to
invest in our regulated businesses.
We have filed for the federal Hart-Scott-Rodino clearance and don't expect any delays, so we should close in
November. I do want to take the opportunity to recognize and thank the entire river operations management and
operations team for their continuing emphasis on providing value to AEP and its customers over the years. This sale
represents a step towards the desired direction of delivering customer and shareholder value as a regulated utility
company.
The PPA story in Ohio continues to develop with ongoing hearings that are occurring and should conclude here very
quickly. We don't know the outcome yet, but AEP is actively pursuing discussions with various parties in the case to
ultimately drive to a solution that makes sense for AEP, its customers, and other stakeholders. We believe the PUCO
should be able to render a decision sometime before the end of the year. Because we believe the timeframe for a
decision is at hand, this will have a direct bearing on AEP's ultimate decision regarding long-term PPA covered
generation assets within our ongoing strategic evaluation process regarding the unregulated generation in Ohio.
The PPA arrangements are important for the security of supply and pricing for Ohio customers and will provide an
important signal regarding future investments in Ohio. We will complete our review with the board as expeditiously as
possible, and as we deal with such issues that you all continue to ask about concerning strategic options, sale proceeds,
use of proceeds, potential dilution, share buy-backs, et cetera, I fully expect not only the PPA decision, but the broader
strategic decisions to be answered in early 2016.
Company Name: American Electric
Company Ticker: AEP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 18
AEP continues to work with each of our states regarding the Clean Power Plan. We believe our states should file initial
plans with the EPA by September of next year to ensure the state maintains ownership in the development of resource
plans that make sense for their particular jurisdictions. AEP and the industry needs clarity regarding investment
decisions in new resources and will continue to work with the states to develop integrated resource plans that comport
with the requirements of these ultimate state plans.
During the last quarter, you may have seen AEP's investment in Greensmith, an energy storage integration platform
company and our continued development of utility-scale solar in Indiana and Michigan as well as our relationships with
the universities to define energy solutions such as rooftop and utility-scale solar along with battery technologies. These
investments in combination with our BOLD technology in transmission and other distributor-related investments will
move us toward a cleaner, more balanced energy portfolio that is focused on the quality of service to our customers.
You'll hear more about this during the EEI in November as well.
Now moving to what I usually call the equalizer chart of ROEs by operating units, note that the overall ROE has
improved to 9.4% from 9.1% from last quarter. As I go through the state, I'll mention what's going on in each one of
those so you can have sort of a trend line of what to see in the future. For Ohio Power, the ROE for AEP Ohio is in line
with expectations and we expect to finish the year in line with the 12% ROE forecasted. For APCo, Virginia earnings
are expected to remain steady during the period because of the previous legislations and the rate freezes in effect.
For West Virginia, we had recently the rate case order that should address the weak returns there. That was where our
issues was in the APCo jurisdictions. The order authorized a rate increase of $99 million with an authorized ROE of
9.75%. Rates were implemented in June of 2015, so we expect to see higher ROEs for APCo for the balance of the
year.
Kentucky, I know that looks a little strange to you; we didn't know what to do when return for the quarter was actually
negative 0.1%. It almost looks like last year we probably should have just put the Kentucky investment into a mattress,
but just understand that we did recently get through a rate case there and we expect it to continue to improve and that
was part of the strategic decisions we made previously about what gets included in rate cases and the timing associated
with them, so we expect Kentucky to move up to 4% by the end of the year. And then by midyear, it'll be – midyear
2016, it'll be back in the 8% to 9% range. So while we have this short-term perturbation of lower ROEs, we expect that
to improve.
For I&M, I&M continues to be on track to grow earnings and achieve its authorized ROE range which is around
10.2%. I&M had a good third quarter as it continues to execute major capital investment programs in generation,
Rockport, STR, solar, and the nuclear lifecycle management, along with PJM transmission related projects.
PSO, its ROE is about the same as last quarter and we continue to progress there through the rate case process. A base
rate case was filed in July of 2015 to recover generation environmental control investments and cost increases since the
last base rate case. We expect new rates to be put in place by first quarter of 2016.
SWEPCO, transmission cost recovery in Texas in the form of a rate true-up in Louisiana, as well as a true-up and
increase in wholesale customer rates were the primary drivers for SWEPCO ROE improvement, although we continue
to see it under pressure because of the Arkansas portion – what we believe is the Arkansas portion of Turk that we
ultimately will be looking for in terms of a retail solution, but the timing is yet to be determined.
For AEP Texas, we expect the ROE in AEP Texas will continue to decline through 2015 as distribution CapEx
increases are put in place. And we're looking – presently looking at alternatives for addressing the ROEs coming down
in that jurisdiction, either through distribution cost recovery or DCRF or a rate case, but we're still looking at those
options. AEP Transmission Holdco, it's – Holdco return of 11.3% is in line with the authorized return so that keeps
plugging along and we keep investing more and more in transmission.
So with all of that said, as we look at the accomplishments of the third quarter and year-to-date, it should be instructive
as to what the future holds for AEP. I'm reminded that yesterday, October 21, 2015, was Back to the Future Day, the
day that Marty McFly and Dr. Emmett Brown time traveled into the future from the 1989 sequel to Back to the Future.
When we look back at 1989 and where we are today, during that time, AEP has reduced SO2 emissions by over 80%,
Company Name: American Electric
Company Ticker: AEP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 18
NOx emissions by over 80%, mercury emissions by over 54%, and CO2 emissions since 2005 levels of 15%.
More recently, we have deployed battery storage technologies, the BOLD transmission line, utility and rooftop solar,
and now embark on the infrastructure of the future to define a better customer experience. These are all examples of
Back to the Future's version of hover boards and self-tying sneakers, but all of this is to say that we believe AEP is
uniquely positioned, both financially and culturally, to be successful during this huge transition that is occurring within
our industry.
We'll continue to focus on infrastructure development, technology and resources of the future and a renewed focus on
the customer experience. Our investors expect consistency and quality of earnings and dividend growth, so any
decision we make should be viewed through the lens of being the next premium regulated utility.
Now I'll turn it over to Brian.
Brian X. Tierney
Thank you, Nick, and good morning, everyone. Let's begin on slide five with a review of the major drivers affecting the
earnings comparison for the quarter. This year's third quarter operating earnings were $1.06 per share or $521 million,
compared to $1.01 per share or $493 million last year. This solid performance was driven by our regulated businesses,
which were all at or above last year's prior results. With that background, let's review the major earnings drivers by
segment.
Earnings per share for the Vertically Integrated Utilities segment were $0.56, up $0.11 from last year. Key drivers in
the quarterly comparison included rate changes, which added $0.09 per share and are related to the recovery of
incremental investment to serve our customers. Warmer temperatures in 2015 also contributed significantly to the
earnings, adding $0.07 per share. Cooling degree days were 25% higher in the East and 18% higher in our Western
service areas.
Margins from normalized load were off $0.03 per share for the quarter, due to lower residential sales and a slight
decline in the average realization. Off-system sales were down $0.03 per share, primarily due to much lower power
prices this year. O&M expense was higher than the prior period, adversely affecting the quarter by $0.03 per share,
mostly due to higher employee related costs. This segment did benefit from higher AFUDC as a result of our capital
spending program, adding $0.01 per share, and lower state and federal income taxes contributed $0.03.
The Transmission and Distribution Utilities segment earned $0.23 per share for the quarter, up $0.04 from last year.
The primary driver was an unfavorable regulatory provision recorded last year that was not repeated in 2015, which
contributed $0.04 per share for the quarter. The remaining other variances were relatively small, including rate changes
in Ohio and weather in Texas each adding a penny versus last year, and these were offset by lower off-system sales and
higher O&M.
The Transmission Holdco segment contributed $0.09 per share for the quarter, up $3 million over last year. We remain
on track to meet our guidance level for this segment for the year. Year-over-year, the Transco's net plant grew by
approximately $1.2 billion, an increase of 51%. The Generation and Marketing segment produced earnings of $0.19 per
share, off $0.05 from the third quarter of last year. We are beginning to see the adverse effect of lower Ohio capacity in
revenue and earnings, partially offset by lower O&M. AEP River Operations declined $0.01 per share and corporate
and other lost $0.02 per share, down $0.04 from last year, primarily due to higher O&M and franchise taxes.
On slide six, we have a view of year-to-date operating earnings compared to last year. Operating earnings for the
year-to-date period stand at $3.21 per share or $1.6 billion compared to last year's $2.95 per share or $1.4 billion.
Similar to the quarterly comparison, growth from our regulated businesses are driving the improved results with the
competitive businesses performing at or below last year. Consistent with our original guidance for 2015, our Vertically
Integrated and Transmission Holdco segments are realizing strong growth, driven by our continued capital investment
and rate base and execution of our regulatory plans. Favorable weather also contributed to year-over-year earnings
growth.
Company Name: American Electric
Company Ticker: AEP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 18
As expected, we are seeing a decline in year-to-year earnings in our competitive generation business, reflecting the loss
of capacity revenue which was tempered by lower O&M and the performance of our commercial and retail teams
taking advantage of market opportunities. The combination of all our businesses allowed us to exceed last year's results
by $0.26 per share. These strong results and our confidence in our plan for the remainder of the year allow us to raise
and narrow the operating earnings guidance range to $3.67 per share to $3.77 per share.
Now let's take a look at slide seven to review the normalized load performance for the quarter. Starting in the lower
right corner, you see that our load increased by 0.9% for the quarter with growth spread across all major retail classes.
This brings our year-to-date normalized load in line with last year.
The upper left quadrant shows that our residential sales grew by 0.8% compared to last year. The growth in residential
sales is coming from a mix of customer and usage growth. Most of the customer growth is happening in our western
territory, especially Texas, where residential counts are up 1.2% versus last year. The growth in residential usage is
coming from Ohio, where we saw the strongest growth in employment for the quarter. Year-to-date residential sales are
down 1.1% versus last year, but this is mostly caused by the weak normalized growth reported in the first quarter; and
remember that had the impacts from last year's polar vortex in it as well.
In the upper right corner, commercial sales were up 1.3% for the quarter. The strongest growth in commercial sales
happened in Ohio, which is consistent with the economic indicators we will discuss in more detail later. Finally, the
lower left quadrant shows that our industrial sales grew at 0.7% compared to last year. We continue to see robust
industrial sales growth from customers in oil and gas related sectors despite the decline in oil prices, which I'll cover in
more detail later in the presentation.
I'd like to point out that most of our load growth for the quarter and year-to-date period is coming from our T&D
Utilities segment, where we only recover the wires portion in our rates. Unfortunately, normalized sales are down 0.8%
in our Vertically Integrated Utilities, where we recover the full bundled rate. This means even though our normalized
load is similar to last year, we lost approximately $0.08 for the year due to the mix of our sales by segment and class.
With that, let's review the most economic data for AEP service territory on slide eight. Starting with GDP, you can see
that the estimated 1.6% growth for the AEP service area is about 0.5% less than the estimated growth for the U.S. This
is not surprising considering the impact of falling oil prices, especially in our Western footprint. While the nation
benefits from lower fuel prices, the regional economies supporting the shale plays are experiencing the direct impact of
lost jobs. For example, there are a number of metro areas like Shreveport, Tulsa, and Abilene that have fewer people
working today than they did at the start of the year.
The bottom left quadrant shows that the job market within AEP's service area is holding steady, but grew at half the
pace of the U.S. Job growth within AEP's Eastern territory exceeded the Western service area for the first time since
2011. The sectors showing the strongest job growth for the quarter include construction, leisure, and hospitality, and
education and health services. We should point out that the sector which saw the biggest employment decline this
quarter is natural resources and mining. This is no surprise given the decline in oil prices and active rig counts.
Now let's turn to slide nine to update you on the domestic shale gas activity happening in AEP's footprint. Given the
impact low energy prices are having on our regional economy, one might expect our electricity sales to the oil and gas
related sectors to be down. However, we continue to see significant load increases in the parts of our service area
located near major shale formations, as illustrated in the upper left chart. We are still seeing nearly 10% growth in our
sales to the oil and gas sectors this quarter, despite oil prices being down 50% from last year, rig counts being down
nearly 60% and the fact that there are over 10,000 fewer oil and gas workers today than we had at the end of last year.
The upper right chart shows that growth in oil and gas loads was spread across all major shale plays within AEP's
service territory with the strongest growth coming from the Eagle Ford, Permian, and Marcellus Shale regions. If we
dissect the oil and gas growth into its components as shown in the bottom left chart, we continue to see the strongest
growth from the midstream pipeline transportation sector, which grew by over 33% over last year. This is mostly due to
the expanding natural gas infrastructure in West Virginia, Ohio, and Texas.
Company Name: American Electric
Company Ticker: AEP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 18
Our upstream oil and gas extraction sales were up nearly 8%, while downstream petroleum and coal product sales
declined by 0.8%. We still have a large number of new oil and gas related expansions expected to come on line over the
next 18 months that will drive our industrial sales growth through 2016.
In contrast to the oil and gas sectors, the red bars on the upper left chart show that sales to the remaining industrial
sectors are not growing as they were last year at this point, down 3.1% in the third quarter. In fact, through September,
half of our top 10 industrial sectors were down from last year's results. One industry clearly affected by the low energy
prices is the mining sector, where sales were down 9% for the quarter and 8% for the year.
On a lighter note, let's turn to slide 10 and review the company's capitalization and liquidity. Our debt-to-total capital
improved by nearly a percent this quarter and is now at a healthy 53.4%. Our credit metrics, FFO interest coverage, and
FFO-to-debt are solidly in the BBB, Baa1 range at 5.7 times and 21.6% respectively.
Our qualified pension funding declined a bit this quarter, dropping from fully funded last quarter to 97% this quarter.
This is a result of declining equity values and a slight decrease in interest rates. Our pension assets are now weighted to
60% in duration-matching fixed income securities with the balance being held in global equity and alternative
investments. We adopted this more conservative investment stance as we approached full funding late last year. Our
OPEB obligations remain fully funded at 112%.
Finally, our net liquidity stands at $3.6 billion and is supported by our two revolving credit facilities that extend into the
summers of 2017 and 2018. Our Treasury group was active during the quarter taking advantage of the low cost of debt
capital. First in August, Texas North accessed the market for $125 million of senior private placement notes. The
offering utilized a delayed funding structure and realized a weighted average life of issuance of 13.4 years and a
weighted average interest rate of 4.04%.
Secondly, in September, the Treasury group and Texas central management accessed the market for $250 million of
10-year senior unsecured notes at a coupon rate of 3.85%. Over the past two years, the Treasury group has been able to
lower AEP's weighted average cost of debt to 4.64%. We are well-positioned as we approach 2016 where we have a
manageable debt maturity stack of slightly more than $1 billion.
Finally, before we turn the call over to your questions, let me review on slide 11, some of the information that we will
be providing at the upcoming EEI Financial Conference. We will confirm our previously stated 4% to 6% growth rate,
which assumes the sale of river operations and the retention of the other businesses in AEP's portfolio. We will provide
an updated operating earnings guidance range for 2016 with detail by segment. As in the past, our growth rate is
predicated on our continued investment in our regulated properties, so we will provide a capital expenditure plan for
the next three years, details on transmission and utility investment opportunities and a three-year financing plan for
getting it all done.
We will also have some slides detailing our generation fleet transformation over the past several years, as Nick just
described. These slides will demonstrate how AEP has invested over $8 billion to transform the fleet and the resulting
dramatic reductions in emissions that this investment has enabled. This story is becoming increasingly important to a
certain class of investors, and we believe AEP has a great story to tell. Finally, we will surely be talking about any
developments in both the Ohio PPAs and the strategic review of our competitive generation business.
With that preview for the future, we're going to now turn the call over to the operator for your questions.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll go to Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
<Q - Dan L. Eggers>: Hey. Good morning, guys.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Good morning, Dan.
Company Name: American Electric
Company Ticker: AEP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 18
<Q - Dan L. Eggers>: Hey, Nick, just on the – you know you guys made a great progress on the equalizer chart as far
as improving the overall earned ROEs. How much more room if you thought about 2016, given the rate cases you see
coming, where do you see the 2016 ROE headed and how much more improvement you need in ROE to be able to hit
the 4% to 6% growth rate?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yeah, I think it's going to continue to improve, Dan. We're probably on the order of 9.6% to
10% in that range for 2016, so it'll continue to improve overall. And then with Kentucky coming up, that's helpful,
although Kentucky's pretty small in the overall comparison, but the others are doing quite well.
<Q - Dan L. Eggers>: Okay. And I guess preemptive on the Ohio generation side, but given the weakness of the
power stocks and the IPP sector, is there a market of buyers still sitting out there who'd be willing to transact on your
assets right now or are market conditions potentially going to slow down maybe the urgency of making a decision on
those assets?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yeah, I think there's still a set of buyers out there, it's just – it certainly goes to the question
whether a spin option is, while it's still on the table, it's more difficult because you have the paper involved with those
companies, but for sale, there's still parties out there, and some of the recent transactions have shown that.
<Q - Dan L. Eggers>: I guess maybe just one last question. When you guys look at the load trends going on right now,
how is the residential versus commercial trends having bearing on what you guys expect to see for load growth next
year?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yeah, so commercial continues to improve. As a matter of fact, that's probably the bright
spot of the portfolio, and you have these cycles that change as we go along, and the residential, that's gone up and down
the last few quarters and it really does drive this view that we need the economy to really start picking back up,
particularly from the energy policy perspective. If we start exporting or if we continue a build-out of the economy that's
focused on energy, then our economy will pick up as well. So we're getting some benefits from auto manufacturing and
that kind of thing, but primary metals on the world market, mining, those kinds of activities are certainly having an
impact. So yeah, we've been in sort of a strange period for several quarters, and actually, years now, and we obviously
need to get the economy moving again from an energy perspective.
<Q - Dan L. Eggers>: Okay. Got it. Thank you, guys.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with Evercore ISI. Your line is open.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Hey, Greg.
<Q - Greg Gordon>: Thanks. Good morning.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Good morning.
<Q - Greg Gordon>: A couple questions. First, the 4% to 6% earnings growth aspiration, is that still off the midpoint
of the original 2014 guidance of $3.20 to $3.40 a share?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yes, it is.
<Q - Greg Gordon>: Okay, great, because you earned $3.43 in 2014, and this year, at the new midpoint, you're going
to earn $3.73. Even if I weather normalize that, that's $3.65. So notwithstanding the deceleration in load growth trends
that you're experiencing, one would presume you're doing very well relative to that aspiration, so I have to ask, does
that aspiration build in the expectation that there'll be some dilution from the sale of the generation assets, which gets
offset over time as you redeploy that capital into the transmission business?
<A - Brian X. Tierney>: Go ahead.
Company Name: American Electric
Company Ticker: AEP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 18
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Go ahead. Go ahead, Brian. I'll follow.
<A - Brian X. Tierney>: No, Greg, that assumes the business as usual case, that we continue to own the properties that
we do today with the exception of river operations. And we'll do for you at EEI like we do the normal waterfall
stair-step between 2015 and what we anticipate 2016 to be. In addition to weather, which if you look across all our
businesses, is probably closer to $0.12, we've had things like inception gains, the generation and marketing, they're
about $0.06. We've had the benefit from the sale of some plants and reducing ARO obligations. That's another $0.06.
So you can pretty easily do a stair-step that would take off that – of that $3.72 about $0.24 for things that we don't
anticipate to be recurring parts of our business.
<Q - Greg Gordon>: Okay. That was really – that was the gist of my question. I appreciate that.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yeah. Greg, I think you have to sort of look at it like in the previous quarters, we've been
talking about working to try to get to a solution for 2016, and now we've moved to confident about 2016.
<Q - Greg Gordon>: Well, certainly even taking into account the things you just articulated, looking back at your
aspiration at the beginning of 2014, you're doing very well.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yes.
<Q - Greg Gordon>: The second question is with regard to the timeline for getting an answer from Ohio on whether or
not you'll be able to contract a portion of that fleet and whether that is a gating factor for concluding an asset sale or
whether there's a deadline at which you would move on an asset sale and not wait around for – sort of in an open-ended
process.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yeah. So it won't negate the discussion. I think really what matters here is, is we get through
the process with Ohio by the end of the year, we have a result that says these particular units are going to be covered by
a long-term PPA, then that says that we're sort of ambivalent, whether, assuming the PPA addresses our concerns as
certainly being long term, we have lots of plan out there. And as well, some of the other provisions to ensure that we're
able to make it quasi-regulated then we're somewhat ambivalent as to whether we hold those units or not. And I think it
certainly bodes well for our ability to hold onto those units and still be a regulated utility. For the remaining assets that
aren't covered by the PPA, there's still a process ongoing. And so we'll go through this.
And as I said earlier, our board has been and for the last two years as you know, we've been going through this with our
board and the PPA because originally we thought it may be later for a decision. No-one knew because we didn't have
the schedule. We're concerned by that and we weren't going to wait for and now there's a schedule in place, there's
hearings that have occurred and we'll conclude here pretty soon. We'll have a result pretty soon and the PPA is very,
very important to our standing in Ohio overall and whether we keep that portion of the generation or not, but it doesn't
change the objectivity and the measured approach that we're using to go through this process to ensure that we're
making the right decisions for our shareholders. And so because we get a PPA doesn't mean certainly that the process is
off for any of those, the remaining generation that's not covered by that type of PPA. So we're looking at this very
straightforward and we've been very consistent in our discussions.
I know last quarter, previous quarter, we were saying that we were, after the capacity auctions, the capacity
performance supplemental auctions, that we would know and understand a lot more. We do. We were assuming that it
was a never-ending approach associated with getting a PPA resolved and it appears that the Ohio Commission has
taken this on seriously and are moving forward with determining what the solution would be. And so we're going to go
through that process, fully understand it, and by first quarter next year, our board will certainly know all the ins and
outs of the issues that we're dealing with and then we'll move forward.
<Q - Greg Gordon>: Great. Is there the potential – there's been chatter about the potential for substantive settlement
talks in the contract discussions. Is that going on or not?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: You're talking about the PPAs?
<Q - Greg Gordon>: The PPAs, yeah.
Company Name: American Electric
Company Ticker: AEP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 18
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Well certainly there's been a lot of chatter and a lot of discussion with multiple parties in
this case and it's a complex issue and certainly we continue to have conversations and certainly FE can speak for
themselves, but we both have the firm belief that there needs to be some kind of support for this generation in Ohio,
and it's really discussion around what those mechanisms would look like. So we'll continue, in discussions with the
parties. I'll stop there.
<Q - Greg Gordon>: Okay. Thank you, guys. Take care.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will come from the line of Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies. Your line is open.
<Q - Anthony C. Crowdell>: Hey. Good morning. I didn't know you guys were such Back to the Future fans.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: We all remember that. Some of us do anyway. I'm probably talking to some people that
don't even remember it, so.
<Q - Anthony C. Crowdell>: If you wanted to wear a Star Trek outfit at EEI, Nick, I'm okay with it.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Well you know, I happened to think about that when I was talking about the BOLD line,
boldly going where no man has gone before.
<Q - Anthony C. Crowdell>: Greg asked most of my questions, but just quickly, when do you think on the PPA
process, if we don't reach a settlement or whatever, if we end up going a fully litigated track, when do you guys expect
that to be finished?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: So if it's fully litigated, we still expect to get an order by the end of the year and that's –
now, fully litigated means obviously there'll still be I am sure, there'll be appeals and all that kind of stuff, but we're
actually focusing on the Commission order itself because that really tells us where the policy making decision in this
state is moving toward. We certainly believe that'll occur before the end of the year.
<Q - Anthony C. Crowdell>: Do you think such a big issue like this for Ohio with getting a PPA or entering into
PPAs, do you think the appeals process would be lessened if you do get a fully-litigated order. I mean are the parties
better off getting a litigated order just so that the appeals process is maybe less shorter or the record is stronger versus a
settlement?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yeah, certainly I think it depends on what the order looks like, but certainly – I mean the
Commission certainly has taken a deliberative approach to this and we have certainly done a lot of analysis along with
FE and others who participate in hearings about can a PPA be used, we feel really good about where we stand from a
legal perspective going forward. I think the real issue is the Commission needs to come out with an order that comports
with the discussions that occurred relative to the PPA so if there's deviation from that in some fashion, maybe could be
opening yourself up to more substantial appeals, but we've given the recipe. The recipe is there, and certainly, it drives
a positive solution for the customers, for Ohio and the Commission certainly has the track-record to be able to put that
kind of thing in place that holds up.
<Q - Anthony C. Crowdell>: Great. Thanks for taking my question.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yep.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Praful Mehta with Citigroup. Your line is open.
<Q - Praful Mehta>: Hi. Thanks so much for taking my call.
Company Name: American Electric
Company Ticker: AEP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 18
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Thanks, Praful. Thanks.
<Q - Praful Mehta>: Hey. So my key question was around the generation business. And as we look at it from an
EBITDA perspective year-to-date for the generation business, you've already achieved about $725 million of EBITDA
relative to guidance midpoint of about $590 million for 2015. So just wanted to understand more long term like is this
more specific things that have happened in 2015 that are driving 2015 EBITDA to be higher? But longer term, your
guidance stays consistent?
<A - Brian X. Tierney>: Praful, a couple of things going on there. One is for the first half of the year, we still had
some considerable capacity revenues coming from Ohio. That dropped off in May and we'll be experiencing that
negative impact through the balance of the year. So that's something that on an annualized basis, you need to factor that
out of the business going forward. We also had two other pieces that contributed to the gen & marketing results this
year that we don't think you can consider as regular ongoing items. One is we've had inception gains of about $0.06 per
share. And the other is we've had reductions in liabilities that in a positive way flow through O&M associated with the
sales of two plants, one is Muskingum River and the other is a [ph] coal impalement (40:14) that we were able to sell.
The combination of those two items is another $0.06. So there are some things that you need to factor out if you're
going to annualize that business on a go forward-looking basis.
<Q - Praful Mehta>: I've got you. That's very helpful. And then finally, just a key question on Ohio. I heard your
points around the ESP and the PPA. I guess I'm just trying to understand from a long-term perspective, I get the
message that if it's long term, it's a different answer or you're at least indifferent between sale versus keeping it. What
defines long term? Is it – is seven years long term enough? If you don't get the full 15, at what point do you say I
actually do have a difference between keeping the business versus selling it?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Well certainly I don't want to get into that too much because – but long-term, to us I mean
we have filed for loss of plant. And I'll just say this, the term has to be substantial because we have to have a feeling
that we can invest. And with the large capital investments that we make in generation, we need to know that we can do
that and be secure from a future perspective. So when I look at our FERC wholesale contracts, we've had contracts that
are 10 years, 15 years, we've had same customers for 75 years so when we talk about long-term it has to be substantial
enough for us to make that kind of investment and so I'm not going to say an actual number at this point because we
have lots of plants sitting out there and that's what we believe what it takes. We'll wait and see what it winds up being,
but I can tell you this, it's three years, which is the length of the capacity deal in PJM, that was a three-year capacity
market, that's not long enough. And that's a problem within PJM and the state has an opportunity to fix that.
<Q - Praful Mehta>: Got it. Thank you so much.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yes.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates. Your line is open.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Hi, Paul.
<Q - Paul Patterson>: Hi. How are you doing?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Fine.
<Q - Paul Patterson>: I just wanted to follow up, I guess, on that question about the generation business and the asset
retirement obligation, and I'm sorry, but I was cutting out a little bit. On slide 22, I noticed this that there's a $62 million
benefit, and just to make sure I understood that, a lot of that has to do with the asset retirement obligation going away
because of some plant sales and for the most part you don't see that recurring. Is that correct?
<A - Brian X. Tierney>: Yeah, we had reserved asset retirement obligations that ended up being higher than what we
were able to realize by selling the plant to a third party, so we were able to get the third party to take those obligations
Company Name: American Electric
Company Ticker: AEP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 18
for less than what we had recorded on the books and that allowed us to flow the difference between what we had
recorded through O&M. And we have gone back now and checked for the remaining plants both from an engineering
standpoint and from a market standpoint, those values that we've recorded the AROs at and we believe those values to
be accurate as they are in the books today.
<Q - Paul Patterson>: Okay. And then just with respect to the AEP Dayton ATC liquidations which seem to be
leveling off, how should we think about how they actually impacted year-to-date earnings in generation & marketing
and how do you see the outlook for those in 2016?
<A - Brian X. Tierney>: We think those prices are going to continue to be under pressure, but I'll say this, Paul, and
we've talked about this before; we do have, as we go into a year, significant component of that generation is hedged. So
for the third quarter of this year, we were at about 60% of the margins and megawatt hours were hedged going into that
period. So we will have similar amounts hedged going forward in 2016, so for two things. One, we'll be able to take
advantage of prices if they do recover and we do see them under pressure right now in 2016, but also if we were to
have unit outages or increased load from our hedges, we wouldn't be subject to market pricing for that as well.
<Q - Paul Patterson>: Great. And then back to Ohio and the PPA situation, and I mean, take this with a grain of salt,
if there was outcome if you thought in terms of settlement versus fully litigated, what would you say the odds are that it
would be settled as opposed to fully litigated?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: I wish I could answer that this point. There's a lot of context within discussions, and there's
multiple aspects of this, not just the units, the generation that's within a PPA, but really what's the total answer for
Ohio? And I even think about it from the Clean Power Plan perspective. The state of Ohio needs to have some
framework for a foundation of a transition with base load generation that allows it to make plans associated with
ultimate retirements of that generation and replacement with new resources that are put in place, and all incremental
resources are either going to be natural gas, renewables, certainly efficiencies regarded the grid itself. Those are the
kinds of investments that I think can really drive Ohio to a more balanced energy future that mitigates a lot of risk for
consumers.
And so what we're talking about here is a foundation to be provided for a transition, and that's clearly important. I think
it should be important to the governors, should be important to the policymakers in the state. And if you drive that kind
of solution, you can wind up at a much better place than you would otherwise. And so I know I said a lot other than
what the direct question you ask and what's the percentage chances, but I think I'm going to those kinds of things that
should and will be discussed in the framework of supporting a PPA type arrangement.
<Q - Paul Patterson>: Okay. And I gathered from your previous comments that you feel pretty confident that we'll get
decision one way or the other by the end of the year. I just want to make sure that as you know, sometimes regulators
whatever there's an issue that's got some whatever lot of speculation et cetera associated with, there's delay. Do you
follow what I'm saying? You don't get the feeling that that's – you feel pretty confident. Am I wrong? Tell me if I'm
wrong that you feel that this is very likely to be settled one way or the other by the end of the year?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: I think it will. There's – it certainly should be settled by the end of the year. And if it goes
the settlement route, then you have to think about, okay, how do you argue about the settlement and that kind of stuff
and who's involved and all that kind of stuff? If you litigate it, well the Commission needs to make a decision. I'm
really focused on making sure we drive to a solution as quickly as possible. And this has been two years, by the way.
The first case that was filed by AEP and then FirstEnergy followed up. I think both, or certainly Chuck can speak for
himself, but both companies need to get on with the investment and decisions that need to be made relative to these
assets. And I certainly believe there's recognition by the Commission that they do need to make this decision.
<Q - Paul Patterson>: Okay. Great. Thanks so much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS. Your line is open.
Company Name: American Electric
Company Ticker: AEP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 18
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Good morning, Julien.
<Q - Julien Dumoulin-Smith>: Hi. Good morning.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Good morning.
<Q - Julien Dumoulin-Smith>: So perhaps just to follow up a little bit of detail from the last question, and again I
hate to hit you with a little bit too much. Is there a minimum tenor that defines getting a long-term solution for PPA? I
know it's a transient question. But kind of how do you think about that?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: The minimum tenor would be a long time. I just – we just want to make sure that everyone
understands that if, regardless of the solution here, if there is a PPA, there's sort of two parts of the gate here. One is
that the Commission approves a PPA. The second is what does the PPA look like? And AEP has been very out front
and very focused and measured in our discussion about this to say that our expectation is a long-term PPA, one that
goes past a three-year ESP cycle or has adjustment mechanisms or all that kind of stuff. We want to make sure that we
have a long-term PPA that we can depend on and that we can actually make the investments we need to make. So
minimum is long-term.
<Q - Julien Dumoulin-Smith>: Got it. Very clear now. Secondly, just sort of a bigger picture question, when you
think about CPP obviously we got that finalized recently. How are you thinking about coordination between the various
states that you have operations in? T&D Utilities, fully integrated, when do you think you start to get clarity about what
needs to happen in each of those states through the filing process et cetera, and perhaps to add to that do you have, or
do you need legislative approval in any state to kick off the CPP compliance?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: No, I think we want to make sure that the commissions are certainly involved with this.
Now the states are going to take their own approach. They may litigate. I'm sure some states will litigate it, but that
could be done in parallel. Our message is regardless of what you decide to do, you really need to work with us on
developing a state implementation plan because that's the only way that, not only can a state have its own approach –
but keep in mind, EPA did allow the states to say, okay come back with a plan and tell us what the reliability
implications are. Because I believe that when the states look at their plans and they go through with the process that
needs to occur and if there are reliability implications they're in a much better position to have a plan and the factual
information to support that. And then who knows what administration changes and all that occurs along the way, but
you're also in a much better position to negotiate relative to your own state implementation plan as opposed to a
one-size-fits-all federal plan that is very difficult for one state to change.
So this is why we're sort of staying out of the arguments where the states and attorney generals and all that get involved
from that perspective, from the litigation perspective. We want to make sure that the states continue to move forward.
And for us, the states that do work with us on developing these plans will be in a much better position because every
filing we make relative to our resource plan, integrated resource plan, or other types of plans, we'll be able to comport
with what the state really wants to see that may be based upon their own unique views of how they want to approach
this. So we want to be part of that and be part of the discussion. We want to be able to drive that discussion because we
have a lot of factual information that I think the states will benefit from.
We've already started those discussions and will continue with that dialogue. For states that just refuse to do a plan,
we'll continue to look at the clean energy economy of the future and the technology of the future and we'll continue to
advance that within the resource plans that we have. So we just want to make sure we have answers to the questions of
where a states' preferences are in terms of resources that they want to move forward with, and that we're there to do it.
And so that's where we're at. I believe the states obviously have to make their own decisions relative to this, but we're
working with the state EPAs and the state public utility commissions. As far as legislation is concerned, we believe
each individual state is unique from that perspective, but we'll be working with the commissions and we'll be making
our voice known in terms of where we think it should go in the future.
<Q - Julien Dumoulin-Smith>: Great. Thank you.
Company Name: American Electric
Company Ticker: AEP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 18
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Good morning, Stephen.
<Q - Stephen Calder Byrd>: Good morning. We definitely need more sci-fi movie references on earnings calls, so
thank you for that.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Okay. We'll work on it.
<Q - Stephen Calder Byrd>: So most of my questions have been addressed, I just had two I wanted to discuss.
Transmission's always been a good area of growth for you and you're in a pretty strong financial position. I wondered if
you could just comment on how bullish you are in terms of finding additional transmission growth opportunities, and to
the extent that you do see more opportunities, could you talk at a high level at the types of transmission opportunities
that you see out there?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yeah, so we continue to have – like I said I think I said last quarter there's well over 2,000
projects that we're working on today, we have other projects out there that are waiting for capital and we constantly are
reviewing the capital situation that occurs. If we wind up with bonus depreciation or other opportunities that we could
advance capital and actually in anticipation of the sale of river ops, we started the transmission spin last quarter when
we raised the transmission in anticipation of that so that we wouldn't have the delay in terms of the earnings power of
transmission associated with that so we're constantly looking at ways to do that and you're going to hear more about
that at EEI and we'll have more to say about, and I think Brian was talking about the capital plans for the future, we'll
have more to say about that.
<Q - Stephen Calder Byrd>: Understood. And then just thinking about, you had mentioned utility-scale solar
investments, when you look across your territories and you think about the ability to actually invest capital versus
entrants at PPAs, could you talk at high level in terms of the regulatory landscape for the decision of preference
between direct investment versus being an off-taker?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yeah, we historically have been an off-taker of renewables. We have like over 2,000
megawatts of wind power. I'm a little tired of others taking credit for wind power when they wouldn't exist without the
PPAs that exist from AEP, so we're going to be obviously much more outspoken about what we're doing relative to
PPAs, but also from an investment perspective, we believe for utility-scale solar we should invest in that because it is a
resource of the future and we have very good operations, maintenance, and project management expertise that we
believe we have something to bring to the table in terms of efficiencies associated with that so when we talk to our
regulatory jurisdictions, remember our regulatory jurisdictions are sort of on the cusp of dealing with these kinds of
situations.
So for us, when we file a resource plan you're going to see some portion of natural gas, you're going to see utility-scale
solar, and you're going to see other grid-type efficiency technologies to put in place whether it's energy storage,
whether it's integrated Volt VAR control, information system deployment, advanced metering, those kinds of things
will be key to our future. And that's something that we're very focused on, so we have transmission. Transmission is a
great opportunity for us because it's a large-scale system that needs refurbishment. So is distribution. Distribution is a
great opportunity for us, but even the build-out of distributed generation, particularly this type of utility-scale, we know
where to place it on the system, it could be part of a resource plan that's filed with commissions and we're in the best
position to build and own that type of generation.
<Q - Stephen Calder Byrd>: Okay. That's great color. Thank you very much.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: The other thing, just to add onto that, the other thing that we're doing is we are focused also
on PPA arrangements with customers, directly with customers, and we've done that in some respects with the Ohio
State University, with Denison University and others and as long as we have, again, a long-term PPA to back up the
supply provisions for energy storage, for utility-scale solar, for rooftop solar, we'll do it. So that's why I say AEP has a
Company Name: American Electric
Company Ticker: AEP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 18
very firm foundation. We're not having to spend large amounts of capital on environmental equipment, like we spent
the $8.2 billion that Brian mentioned earlier. We're about done with that. And we have a real opportunity to advance
this company in the future from a new-age energy supply perspective.
<Q - Stephen Calder Byrd>: Great. Thanks very much.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yep.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Hugh Wynne with Bernstein Research. Your line is open.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Good morning, Hugh.
<Q - Hugh D. Wynne>: Good morning. I had a question about the AEP Transmission Holdco. You've had a very good
result year-to-date, earnings up $0.07 off of a 2015 base $0.30. But third quarter had uncharacteristically poor result
with the sort of flat earnings year-over-year. And I was wondering if you could perhaps explain a little bit what
happened, if there are any implications for the future?
<A - Brian X. Tierney>: So we had a onetime blip there, Hugh, related to O&M. At ETT, we had a cross-arm issue
from some of the build out that we had to do there and we had to spend some dollars to address that physical issue. We
don't anticipate that to be a recurring item and we believe it was a blip for the quarter and we'll be able to get back on
track for the end of the year.
<Q - Hugh D. Wynne>: Okay. And then if I could just quickly, following up on the prior question on the Clean Power
Plan, is there a form of regulation or a structure of regulation that you're trying to push your states to consider? Or are
you happy to work with states on their individual objectives even if those are materially different structures or
regulatory approaches?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yeah. I think we're willing to work with the states on their own individual unique
circumstances, and we'll be working in that vein. Now, what we are looking at is we'd rather see and this is sort of
tentative for us because we're still looking at a mass-based approach because that's more amicable to trading within
states. But we've got to have the state solutions before we really understand how important the trading aspects are
going to be. But we believe we're better off with a mass-based approach.
<Q - Hugh D. Wynne>: Is it a view that your other CEOs share or is that subject to debate?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yeah. You'd have to talk to them. Their states may be in different places. I know California
obviously is in a different place. And – but it will be unique to each individual region of the country I believe, and then
really what kind of resources that you're transitioning from within the states as well.
<Q - Hugh D. Wynne>: Great. All right. I appreciate that insight. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will come from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc. Your line is open.
<Q - Paul T. Ridzon>: Thanks. Most of my questions have been answered, but can you remind us what your indicative
guidance for 2016 was?
<A - Brian X. Tierney>: It's $3.45 to $3.85.
<Q - Paul T. Ridzon>: And any comment on how you feel about where in that range things are looking?
<A - Brian X. Tierney>: We'll be updating that at EEI in a couple of weeks.
Company Name: American Electric
Company Ticker: AEP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 18
<Q - Paul T. Ridzon>: And given that, I guess the decision of what to do with the Ohio generation is going to be a big
driver of 2016. How will you handle that in guidance?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yeah, that's why Brian said earlier that the forecast for 2016 and the guidance that we'll give
in November will still include those generation resources, it's not an assumption that we're going to continue to own,
and I want to be careful with that. What it does say is that's what we know today, and so we'll plan for 2016 with that
assumption, and if something does happen first quarter or whenever a transaction is actually completed, then we'll have
to re-benchmark and adjust.
<Q - Paul T. Ridzon>: And you indicated you expect oil and gas to expand through 2016. Are there any particular
regions where that's driving that expansion?
<A - Brian X. Tierney>: Yeah, it's all shale related, Paul, so it's Texas in particular and then West Virginia and Ohio.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yeah, keep in mind while the rig count's not going up, the electric load is and that's because
there's a lot of consolidation that's occurring and efficiencies around compressor load that continues to get added so you
have to sort of de-link what rig count's doing versus what the electric load itself is doing.
<Q - Paul T. Ridzon>: Basically, we're behind the curve on the development of the infrastructure to move the gas out
and that's going to continue through 2016?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: That's right.
<Q - Paul T. Ridzon>: Okay. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Shah Pourreza with Guggenheim Partners. Your line is open.
<Q - Shahriar Pourreza>: Good morning.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Good morning, Shah.
<Q - Shahriar Pourreza>: I know we'll touch on 2016 at EEI, but just under a scenario where you retain the
approximate 3 giga-watts under a PPA and you sell the remaining 5 gigs, does that scenario necessarily have to lend
itself to dilution or do you have enough leverage to pull, i.e., or 2,000 plus transmission projects or even buy-backs to
mitigate any type of a dilution opportunity?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yeah, I think you're sort of answering the question and that is we have to understand
certainly what the proceeds would be. If there is dilution, then there's all kinds of transactions that could be done to
mitigate that but also from a share buy-back and that kind of thing you could make adjustments there as well, so but it's
too difficult to answer at this point. I mean, there's just so many moving parts in that analysis, but we will certainly go
through that process.
<Q - Shahriar Pourreza>: Got it. Excellent. And just one last question, obviously we've got [ph] staff rec the route on
(1:05:57) the PPAs. And sort of when you look at sort of what the recommendations are, obviously what's the most
contentious item? Is it the tenor of the PPA? There were certainly some comments as far as the ROE. Is everything sort
of up for negotiation?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yeah. I guess probably the most contentious issue is the PPA itself. The staff said well we
object to a PPA but it can work under certain provisions. So if you get to the second door then it's probably tenor and
those types of things that would be discussed. I mean just like with a long-term wholesale provider that we provide to
you all the time, it's always price, tenor, and what the provisions are. So but I would say certainly on the former getting
the PPA addressed and then secondly around tenor and then what's included.
<Q - Shahriar Pourreza>: Terrific. Thanks so much.
Company Name: American Electric
Company Ticker: AEP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 16 of 18
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yep.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Andy Levi with Avon Capital Advisors. Your line is open.
<Q - Andrew Levi>: Hi. Good morning. Can you hear me?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yep. I can hear you.
<Q - Andrew Levi>: Great. Just on the PPAs, could you categorize the settlement talks that are going on?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Well I've said there was discussions going on. And so, we're obviously going through that
process and talking about a lot of issues. And really, I can't say anything more at this time about that. But I can tell you
that we're discussing with several parties.
<Q - Andrew Levi>: Great. Thank you. And then on the potential asset sales, the generation, I guess they're two
buckets is kind of the way to look at it. They could become one bucket or be broken up into two buckets depending on
the PPA. Is it possible that the bucket that is not involved in the PPA gets moved before the PPA gets resolved?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: I would say not likely because we're looking for an overall answer to this. I mean obviously
if the PPA is not put in place, then we have a larger amount of generation that we have to go through this process with.
So they'll probably be answered at the same time.
<Q - Andrew Levi>: And if you were to get a PPA on the first bucket, would it be possible that you would pursue a
PPA for the second bucket?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Well that's an interesting question, but I think getting the PPA through and getting whatever
units are included in a PPA I would say that the open units that aren't included in the PPA, we're not going to assume
that they're going to be brought back in at some later time, and so besides we really don't have the time for that.
<Q - Andrew Levi>: And just regulatory-wise right, the only potential for PPA at this stage is with what's been filed
for, right? You wouldn't be able to add megawatts or assets to that through a settlement process, could you?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Unless there's a settlement.
<Q - Andrew Levi>: So through a settlement it's possible to add megawatts for no better way to put it, I guess?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Well...
<Q - Andrew Levi>: Is that correct? Or...
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Yeah, but then you wind up with a lot of additional discovery and that kind of stuff around
that, so I'm just saying potentially it could be done, but it would open up perhaps another can of worms that we have to
deal with.
<Q - Andrew Levi>: Got it. Okay. Thank you. See you soon.
<A - Bette Jo Rozsa>: Operator, we have time for one more question.
Operator
Thank you, and that will be from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust. Your line is open.
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: Good morning, Ali.
Company Name: American Electric
Company Ticker: AEP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 17 of 18
<Q - Ali Agha>: Thank you. Good morning. I know that, Brian or Nick, you mentioned that on 2016 guidance you
presumed the sale of the river operations, but you kept the generation as is, should we assume that that sale at least
from a timing perspective is dilutive in 2016? Is that a fair assumption?
<A - Brian X. Tierney>: The sale of river ops?
<Q - Ali Agha>: Yes.
<A - Brian X. Tierney>: No, Ali, let's just look at recent earnings history from that business. Last year, we earned
$0.10. This year we were forecast to earn $0.08 for the year. In 2012 and 2013, we earned $0.02 per share from that
business, so I would not think of that as being dilutive for 2016.
<Q - Ali Agha>: Okay, and then also, Brian, as you mentioned earlier, your current 4% to 6% growth is based off the
midpoint of the original 2014 guidance, so as we look forward, is that sort of the way to be thinking about it, that when
you're looking at 4% to 6% we should use your original midpoint of your 2015 guidance as you move things forward?
Or conceptually, how should we be thinking about what base to use for that 4% to 6% going forward?
<A - Brian X. Tierney>: We'll lay out a framework for that at EEI. I need to stop talking about 2014 original
guidance, because that's getting pretty far back in the rearview mirror now. But we'll lay out that framework at EEI. It's
– our long-term anticipated growth rate is 4% to 6% and we can normalize everything and take you through that
discussion in more detail at EEI with some charts that we're putting together.
<Q - Ali Agha>: I got it. And last question, Nick, as you looked at the timeline on strategic issues on merchant, the
Ohio PPA, obviously, things have moved as other events have gotten delayed. Are you now at a point where you say,
look we think this will happen by year-end and so we'll get clarity by early next year, but if regulatory processes
continue to get shifted further, is early next year sort of casting stone in your mind to finally resolve the strategic issue
on merchant or would you still be flexible depending on how the PPA staff is moving?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: This thing has gone on long enough, and I think that we have to get on with making a
decision and really our board has been dealing with this for a year and a half, two years now as well. So it's very
important that we get the answers that we need from the Commission so that we understand what Ohio's policy is going
to be in the future. So my view is that first quarter this coming year, we'll have an answer ready with the Commission
that we know not so much whether it holds up in court or anything like that, or what the thinking this. And that's what's
clearly important is the way we address this process and to not be thinking about it for a long period of time or not
hearing what people are thinking about it externally from a policy perspective. That is very important to us. So my view
is our patience has sort of run thin here and we need to get on with it.
<Q - Ali Agha>: Just to clarify, so if the PPA rider discussion for whatever reason is continuing beyond Q1, you are
not going to wait for that to continue beyond that. Is that fair?
<A - Nicholas K. Akins>: I think that's fair. I think that's fair. Now, I can't say that on January 29 or January 30, we
think we're going to get an order on February 1. That we're going to pull the plug on January 30. But we fully expect
the Commission to get done by year-end and then we'll go about the process as quickly as we can to focus on what the
future holds. And so I'm just saying that first quarter we should be in a position where we move on.
<Q - Ali Agha>: Understood. Thank you.
Bette Jo Rozsa
Thank you for joining us on today's call. As always, the IR team will be available to answer any additional questions
you may have. Cynthia, would you please give the replay information?
Operator
Company Name: American Electric
Company Ticker: AEP US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 18 of 18
Certainly and ladies and gentlemen, today's conference call will be available for replay after 11:15 A.M. today until
midnight October 29. You may access the AT&T TeleConference replay system by dialing 1800-475-6701 and
entering access code of 370966. International participants may dial 320-365-3844. Those numbers once again,
1800-475-6701 or 320-365-3844 and enter the access code of 370966. That does conclude your conference call for
today. Thank you for your participation and for using AT&T Executive TeleConference Service. You may now
disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.