Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2015-07-28
Event Description: Q2 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income
Page 1 of 10
Q2 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed Income
Company Participants
• Steve Dahle
• Michael L. Seneski
• Neil M. Schloss
• Stuart John Rowley
Other Participants
• Douglas Karson
• Brian J. Jacoby
• Brian Arthur Johnson
• Eric Selle
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Second Quarter Fixed Income Conference Call. My name is
Krystal, and I'll be the operator for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct
a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]
I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today, Mr. Stephen Dahle, Manager, Fixed Income, Investor
Relations. Please proceed, sir.
Steve Dahle
Thank you, Krystal, and good morning ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to all of you who are joining us either by phone
or webcast. On behalf of the entire Ford management team, I'd like to thank you for spending time with us this
morning.
With me this morning are Neil Schloss, Ford Vice President and Treasurer; Stuart Rowley, Ford Vice President and
Controller; Michael Seneski, Ford Credit Chief Financial Officer. We also have some other members of management,
who are joining us for the call today, including Marion Harris, Assistant Treasurer; Brian Schaaf, Assistant Treasurer;
and Paul Andonian, Director of Global Accounting.
Before we begin, I'd like to review a few items. A copy of this morning's press release and the Fixed Income slides that
we will be using today, have been posted on the Ford Motor Company's Investor and Media websites for your
reference.
The financial results discussed herein are presented on a preliminary basis. The final data will be included in our Form
10-Q. Additionally, the final results presented here are on a GAAP basis and, in some cases, on a non-GAAP basis.
Any non-GAAP financial measures discussed on this call are reconciled to the U.S. GAAP equivalent as part of the
appendices to the slide deck.
Finally, today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for Ford's future
performance. Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments here. The most significant
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2015-07-28
Event Description: Q2 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income
Page 2 of 10
factors that could affect future results are summarized at the end of this presentation. These risk factors and other key
information are detailed in our SEC filings, including our annual, quarterly, and current reports to the SEC.
With that, I would like to turn the call over to Ford Credit CFO, Michael Seneski. Michael?
Michael L. Seneski
Thanks, Steve. Consistent with prior quarters, today, we're going to cover Ford Credit's profit and credit loss
performance, our funding and liquidity highlights, automotive cash, debt, and liquidity, and then we'll wrap things up
with a summary of the quarter.
Let's turn to Ford Credit's operating highlights on slide one. Ford Credit continues to be a strategic asset to Ford,
providing world-class financial services and an integral part of Ford's global growth strategy.
We maintain a strong balance sheet that provides solid profits and distributions to Ford.
We had another strong quarter with pre-tax profit of $506 million, and net income of $340 million. During the quarter,
we launched a peer-to peer car-sharing pilot to test Ford Credit customer interest in renting their vehicles to others as
we look to meet future financing and mobility needs.
Managed receivables are showing continued growth consistent with our expectations. Second quarter
loss-to-receivables ratio of 17 basis points remains at the low-end of our historical performance. At June 30, the
allowance for credit losses was $380 million or 32 basis points of managed receivables and managed leverage was 8.7
to 1 at the end of the quarter, unchanged from year end. And at the end of the second quarter, our equity was $11.7
billion.
Turning to slide two, you can see that Ford Credit continued to demonstrate solid growth supporting Ford. Our
origination practices continue to be consistent and costs remain well-controlled and in line with our expectations. Our
pre-tax profit improved compared with a year ago as a result of favorable volume and mix, reflecting higher consumer
finance receivables in all geographic segments and an increase in leasing in North America. We also benefited from the
non-recurrence of unusually high storm losses last year, which is included in the other line. Higher credit losses were a
partial offset, reflecting an increase in the reserve and higher charge-offs in North America. And as shown below the
chart, pre-tax profit was largely unchanged compared to the first quarter.
For the full year, we continue to expect our pre-tax profit to be equal to or higher than last year. Year-end managed
receivables between $123 billion and $128 billion. Distributions to our parent of about $250 million and year-end
managed leverage at the upper end of our 8 to 1, to 9 to 1 range.
Slide three shows our quarterly trends of charge-offs, loss receivables ratio and credit loss reserve. As I said earlier, we
continue to experience historically low levels of credit losses. The second quarter LTR of 17 basis points is well below
our 10-year average of 46 basis points. Year-over-year charge-offs were up $17 million and LTR was up 5 basis points,
reflecting primarily higher defaults and higher severity in North America. The quarter-over-quarter declines were
consistent with normal seasonality. The reserve as a percent of managed receivables was about equal to last year and
was up $25 million on an absolute basis from the first quarter. And as you know, the credit loss reserve is based on
historical loss performance, portfolio quality, and, of course, receivable levels.
Slide four shows the primary credit loss drivers in our U.S. Ford and Lincoln retail financing and lease portfolio, which
comprised about 73% of our worldwide consumer portfolio at the end of the second quarter. Over 60-day delinquencies
remain consistently low at 10 basis points, down a couple of basis points from a year ago and down 3 basis points from
the first quarter of 2015.
Repossessions continue at historically low levels. There were 6,000 units or 89 basis points, now down significantly
both year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter. This represents our lowest repo rate on record. Severity of $8,600 in the
second quarter was $1,300 higher than the same period a year ago. $900 of this increase reflects higher amounts
financed, higher balances at repossession with our growing number of new contracts, and longer term mix. The
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2015-07-28
Event Description: Q2 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income
Page 3 of 10
remainder reflects a change we referred during the first quarter and you can see noted on the slide. The
quarter-over-quarter severity increased by about $300. The second quarter illustrates that we continue to experience
historically low levels in many of our credit loss drivers and our overall performance is in line with our expectations.
Slide five shows the quarterly trends of the lease residual performance for our U.S. Ford and Lincoln brands.
Year-over-year, leasing growth across the industry continued and is on pace for one of the highest years ever. While
Ford Credit's share went up as well, it remains well below the industry average and within the parameters of our One
Ford lease strategy that we've talked about with you guys a number of times before.
In the second quarter, our lease return volume was lower and the return rate was down 5 percentage points compared
with the same period a year ago, reflecting fewer 24 month versus 36 month lease placements in 2013 versus 2012. Our
auction values improved both year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter and we think that's consistent with the industry.
And our worldwide net investment in operating leases was $23.4 billion, up $1.9 billion from year end 2014.
With that, I'll turn it over to Neil.
Neil M. Schloss
Thanks, Mike, and good manning, everyone. Turning to slide six, we are on track to achieve our 2015 funding plan.
Year-to-date, we have issued about $17 billion. In the second quarter, we completed about $7 billion of funding in the
public term markets consisting of about $3 billion of unsecured debt in the U.S., Canada, and Europe and about $4
billion of public asset-backed debt in the U.S. and Europe.
On April 30, Ford extended and increased its revolving credit facility to $13.4 billion, of which $3 billion was allocated
to Ford Credit to support growth and liquidity plans. This allocation included $1 billion Chinese RMB sub-facility,
which was the largest and first ever five-year offshore revolving credit facility. FCE also extended and increased its
revolving credit facility by 10% to £830 million. We ended the quarter with strong net liquidity of about $27 billion.
Our funding strategy remains focused on diversification and we plan to continue accessing a variety of markets,
channels, and investors. We continue targeting A investment-grade profile.
Slide seven shows our projected 2015 global public funding plan for Ford Credit, excluding our short-term funding
programs. As I mentioned earlier, year-to-date, we have completed about $17 billion of public-term funding in the
U.S., Canada, Europe, and China. The forecasted ranges are consistent with our prior guidance.
Slide eight shows the trends in funding of our managed receivables. At the end of the second quarter, managed
receivables were $118 billion and we ended the quarter with $10 billion in cash. Securitized funding was 40% of
managed receivables. Our projection for year-end managed receivables and securitized funding as a percent of
managed receivables remains unchanged from prior quarters.
Turning to slide nine, we highlight Ford Credit's 2015 liquidity. Our liquidity remains strong at $26.6 billion, a
decrease of $1.3 billion from the first quarter. Ford Credit sources of liquidity include cash, committed asset-backed
lines, unsecured credit facilities, and the corporate revolver allocation.
As of June 30, our liquidity sources including cash totaled $46.8 billion, down $1.7 billion from the first quarter. As
mentioned previously, our allocation from the Ford's revolving credit facility was increased by $1 billion reflecting the
Chinese RMB sub-facility. Not included in liquidity sources noted on the slide. FCE Bank has retail receivables
prepositioned with the Bank of England which could, if necessary, support access to their discount window. We are
focusing on maintaining strong liquidity to meet our business and funding requirements through economic cycles.
Slide 10 shows the Ford's automotive debt at $13.7 billion at the end of the quarter, $300 million higher than the first
quarter, more than explained by local funding in Brazil. Ford ended the quarter with net cash of $7 billion and
automotive liquidity of $31.7 billion.
Now let's close with the summary of the second quarter. Ford delivered an outstanding second quarter. In fact, it's best
automotive quarterly profit since 2000, and it remains on track to deliver a breakthrough year. Ford's pre-tax profits of
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2015-07-28
Event Description: Q2 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income
Page 4 of 10
$2.9 billion included the best quarter ever in North America and the second quarter record in Asia-Pacific. At quarter
end, automotive gross cash was $20.7 billion and liquidity was $31.7 billion.
Ford also reconfirmed company guidance for full year 2015. Ford Credit had another strong quarter with receivables up
$5 billion from year end 2014. As a result of our consistent purchasing policy and world-class servicing, our portfolio
continues to perform well. We have a diversified funding plan and ample liquidity in line with our long-term goals.
Ford Credit is a strategic asset and an integral part to Ford's business. It supports sales and dealers, builds customers
satisfaction and loyalty, and delivers consistent profits from its strong business. We're excited about our car-sharing
pilots and our participation in Ford Smart Mobility initiatives.
And now, I'll turn it over to Steve to start Q&A session.
Steve Dahle
Thanks, Neil. With that, we will start the question-and-answer session. Krystal, can we have the first caller, please?
Q&A
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Doug Karson from Bank of America. Please proceed.
<Q - Douglas Karson>: Great. Thanks a lot, guys. Good quarter. All the major stats at Ford Credit seem to be in line
or better than I had or you're shooting for, your numbers better than last year, which would bring I think closer to $2
billion. Just for an update as far as dividends to the parent company, you had mentioned that earlier on the call, what do
you guys set at right now for that?
<A - Michael L. Seneski>: It's about $250 million, Doug.
<Q - Douglas Karson>: $250 million? Okay. Okay, perfect. And then from the call this morning, there was some very
good color kind of given on this topic, but I get a lot of questions from investors on China. I know it's about 4.7% of
your share. If you could just give us a little parameters there, I know that segment presented $192 million in pre-tax
profit, but China was kind of weak. If you could just help me kind of understand, Neil, what to think about regarding
what type of risk that China could present?
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Hey, Doug, it's Stuart here. So you're correct, we made $192 million in the region, we
made $411 million in our two unconsolidated joint ventures and that was up compared to the $306 million in the same
quarter last year. So the joint ventures, CAF and JMC, they performed very well. They're benefiting from the products
that they launched at the end of last year, principally the new Escort. And Bob highlighted in his comments, the
products that are still to come in the second half of the year, we launched the three-row Edge in Changan Ford in the
second quarter, and we have still to come the Taurus which is another dedicated product for China as well as the
Everest.
And they're all – the Everest is an SUV that will be built in JMC. So they're all higher-end products and they support
our guidance for the region, which is to be improved in 2015 versus last year. So we're actually expecting a stronger
second half than we've had in the first half. So it's very good performance. Now behind that, clearly there is softening
in the China industry, so we've taken our industry guidance down to 23 million units to 24 million units now, and last
year was it about 24 million units.
So we're effectively guiding to equal or slightly lower and obviously that's a change in China from the recent years
we've seen a strong growth. But in that environment, our team is on top of that. As we saw the industry soften, we've
adjusted production quickly. Our stocks are in good shape, and so that we're well positioned to reap the benefits of the
new products we're going to launch during the year. But it's clearly a little softer than it has been, but we still expect to
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2015-07-28
Event Description: Q2 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income
Page 5 of 10
see good sales growth and good profitability for from the region in total and also in China.
<Q - Douglas Karson>: And so, 22 million units – you give an outlook of 23 million units to 24 million units. So, as
we think about it, we're flat to maybe just a little bit down relative to what we saw in 2014?
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: That's correct, yes.
<Q - Douglas Karson>: Okay.
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: On an industry level.
<Q - Douglas Karson>: Industry level? Okay. That's it from me. Thanks for helping me with that, and a good quarter.
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Thank you.
<A - Michael L. Seneski>: Thanks, Doug.
Operator
Our next question will come from the line of Brian Jacoby from Goldman Sachs. Please proceed.
<Q - Brian J. Jacoby>: Hey guys, thanks for taking my questions. I'll echo what Doug said, great quarter. Just couple
more questions on the guidance. I guess back to Asia-Pacific, so you did say the second half will be better than the first
half. Is that right? Is that...
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Yes.
<Q - Brian J. Jacoby>: On an absolute basis, not just margin you're saying like overall absolute higher earnings in the
back half?
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Yeah.
<Q - Brian J. Jacoby>: Okay. And part of that's a function of, too, you're saying you're launching product that's pretty
rich mix is what you guys are saying, is driving that. So even though pricing for the industry is down, you guys are
seeing kind of richer mix and your pricing is just going to hold up better, is that sort of fair way to put it?
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Well, I don't think we're making an observation about our pricing relative to the industry. I
think we've spoken many times that we've experienced over the years negative pricing in the China industry and we
don't expect anything any different this year. But what we are doing is introducing products into new segments for Ford
and products specifically tailored for the China market, the Escort that we had last year, the three-row Edge was
previously an import from North America is now being produced locally and that third row specifically was engineered
for the China market.
And then the Taurus is a new segment, we're entering in the D/E Sedan segment as well as our Lincoln products. So
we're adding MKX and we're adding Navigator. So we're broadening our product range and a lot of that – and also the
Everest, I'm sorry, which is an SUV – they're all new products and they are competing at the richer end of the market
and they come with relatively better margins, so we're not saying we'll buck the overall trend on pricing but we're going
to have a much stronger product offer in there in the second half and we're very confident about that offering.
<Q - Brian J. Jacoby>: And – you did say on the previous call and you may have alluded to it earlier, but – so the
volume numbers you're talking for the industry includes, I guess, both passenger and, what, light commercial vehicles
or is it light and medium commercial vehicles you're including in there?
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Passenger and commercial, I'd have to get back to you, Brian, with the – I'm not familiar
with the breakdown, the same light and heavy breakdown, but it's total industry. And in the first half, I think, Mark
mentioned this, it was in the commercial segment that we saw the weakness – which is often the case, those customers
sometimes react more quickly to the change, you got the infrastructure, you got small businesses. So commercial was
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2015-07-28
Event Description: Q2 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income
Page 6 of 10
down and passenger car was about flat.
<Q - Brian J. Jacoby>: Okay. Yeah, that was the color I was looking for. Okay. And then moving, switching gears,
just North America – so again this is another region where you guys had a great quarter – F-150 everything is doing
well, and you did say second half would be better here too, right, I mean, so I just want to make sure if you're thinking
about the second half right on that as well?
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Yeah, that's right. So – in the first quarter, we were really in launch mode Kansas City. In
the second quarter, we did move up to full production. And, of course, in the second half, we have full production in
both of the plants. And, of course, to compare it to last year, in the second half we had our Dearborn truck plant within
changeover. So, yeah, so that's correct, we're expecting a better second half and a very good second half in North
America.
<Q - Brian J. Jacoby>: Right, okay. It just seems – I guess to conclude on this, on the profit side, and then I have one
other question, but I think this is sort of mentioned on the earnings call, but it almost looks like, question is why you
aren't raising guidance, because you have a few regions here that sounds like you're going be at 10% margin in North
America for the full year. And overall, just Ford Motor Credit is doing better. So it just feels like things have to get
really bad in South America or just seems like you're going to beat your $9.5 billion high-end for pre-tax profit. So, just
a question is why – what's holding you back from raising guidance?
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Well, we did moderate our guidance somewhat. We said in North America that we had the
opportunity to be at the high-end of the range of the 8.5% to 9.5% operating margin, based on the really strong
performance we're seeing across the products, but particularly on F-150. The other thing, Bob mentioned on the call
was that in Europe, typically the second half as we – our guidance is unchanged for Europe, we expect to better than
last year. But the second half in Europe is typically lower than the first half, and we would expect the same thing in
2015. And that's really driven by the seasonality of the industry and particularly the shutdowns in the third quarter. So,
we've confirmed our guidance 8.5% to 9.5%, obviously we continue to work to improve and do better, but we think
that it's going to be very strong year and obviously that's a big improvement from 2014.
<Q - Brian J. Jacoby>: Yeah, okay. And then final follow up here is just housekeeping question. So, total revolver is
around $13.4 billion and then FMCC has access to $3 billion. And I think you guys said on the earnings slide deck that,
I guess, total liquidity available through revolvers is a net amount of close to around $11 billion. What's the delta, is it
letters of credit? I'm just curious, what's the delta?
<A - Neil M. Schloss>: Some of our – yeah, this is Neil – some of our affiliates have committed credit lines directly for
them, which is incremental to the corporate facility.
<Q - Brian J. Jacoby>: Okay, all right. That's it from me. Like I say, great quarter. Thanks.
<A - Michael L. Seneski>: Yeah, thanks for calling, Brian.
Operator
Our next question will come from the line of Brian Johnson from Barclays. Please proceed.
<Q - Brian Arthur Johnson>: Yes, good morning. Thanks for taking the call. Just on U.S. residuals and the severities,
how much of the increase in auction values, and where we are in severities reflect truck versus car mix, because the
auction data for mid and small sedan has been trending soft for quite a while. So just kind of wondered how that factors
into your whole residual and repo performance numbers?
<A - Michael L. Seneski>: All right. It's Mike. Normally, you'd see a pretty close relationship. In most quarters, you
see auction values move and you can tie it right to severities. This time we're not seeing that as much. As I said on
auction values for lease, and you've read this through Manheim as well, prices – used car prices are moving in a pretty
narrow range and we do agree with that, and you can see that on slide five. Our performance is pretty consistent with
the industry within one standard deviation. So, overall, auction prices pretty stable, slightly up.
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2015-07-28
Event Description: Q2 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income
Page 7 of 10
If you look at our severity, there's a couple of things going on, and it's not necessarily car versus truck. We are seeing
higher amount of finance, some of that can be mix related. But we're also seeing longer term mix. Right? We know the
industry is going to more 72 month. And so, those are going to have higher severity. That doesn't mean it's bad. In fact,
we know how to price for that, and our profitability and our performance reflects that. So, yes, it will translate to higher
severity, but as long as we price for it appropriately, that's okay. And, then the other thing that we're seeing is, as we're
growing, the average age of the portfolio gets a little younger, and as it gets a little younger, you have a few contracts
that default a little earlier in their life and they have higher severity.
So, those three factors are kind of leading to what we're seeing is the increase. Auction value was pretty muted to
slightly positive in the quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year comparisons for repo data.
<Q - Brian Arthur Johnson>: And second question on the lease is your low repo rate, is that random or is it a
reflection of maybe a better cure rate on the delinquencies than in the past and maybe some new analytics that you're
trying out?
<A - Michael L. Seneski>: Well, I really do think that it's something that we're seeing across the industry. I mean, you
guys read the clipsheets as much as I do and I think you can see our over 60 day delinquency is at 10 basis points.
Companies like Experian, TransUnion, Equifax, the New York Fed, they've all written articles that see auto
delinquencies at or near all-time lows. So, when your delinquencies are low, obviously that's going to flow on to the net
repo rate. And so I think it's a [indiscernible] (25:50) – and I think it's a combination of a number of things. I think
you've seen a seachange in customer behavior and I also think our tools across the industry are a hell of a lot better than
they probably used to be 10 years ago.
<Q - Brian Arthur Johnson>: And final question, Mark mentioned a lot on the main call about new mobility models,
disruptive mobility. I just want to know what you're doing at Ford Credit vis-à-vis that; in particular I notice that
Hoover has a lease relationship with Banco – with Santander to support its drivers. Are you doing anything like that? Is
that a market you're studying? Are there other models that are maybe more, less that you're looking at to kind of take
advantage of those trends?
<A - Michael L. Seneski>: Well, one of the things that we mentioned on the first page of the deck is, we've actually
launched a peer-to-peer car-sharing pilot in six U.S. cities and London. In the U.S., it's with Getaround and in London
it's with easyCar Club. It targets about 26,000 Ford Credit customers and it gives us a chance over the next six months
or so to see how many of our customers are interested in that, how often they use it, what the behavior patterns are, and
we'll figure out where we go from there after that. But we're pretty excited about our involvement in Smart Mobility.
Obviously, we have a huge relationship with the customer, we know it leads to increased loyalty and if we can better
utilize that to better meet customers' needs and be part of some of the mobility solutions we're going to.
<Q - Brian Arthur Johnson>: Yeah. I get – I understand plays like RelayRides and Getaround, but what's the specific
credit versus contribution to that?
<A - Michael L. Seneski>: Well, at this stage, it's a pilot, it's 26,000 customers. And as we get some results of the
pilot, we'll let you know with where it came out and where we're going to go.
<Q - Brian Arthur Johnson>: Okay, but it involves special financing projects, products that...
<A - Michael L. Seneski>: No, right now it's just access for our targeted retail customers to actually sign up with
Getaround or easyCar Club, but there is no unique financing or anything like that.
<Q - Brian Arthur Johnson>: Yeah. Okay, you're not saying if you could make $200 a month, sharing your car will
take a look at your say income to monthly payment ratios.
<A - Michael L. Seneski>: No.
<Q - Brian Arthur Johnson>: Okay. Thanks.
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2015-07-28
Event Description: Q2 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income
Page 8 of 10
<A - Michael L. Seneski>: I can't wait till we get some of the learnings and see what it is going to tell us we should be
doing. And we're excited about the fact that we are experimenting around the world and this isn't going to be the last of
some of the pilots that we run.
<Q - Brian Arthur Johnson>: So, next time I fly to Detroit instead of taking Metro Car (sic) [Metro Cars] (28:45),
can I borrow one of your cars?
<A - Michael L. Seneski>: There you go. We'll have, Steve, pick you up. How's that?
<A - Neil M. Schloss>: We'll have to check your credit.
<A - Michael L. Seneski>: Yeah.
<Q - Brian Arthur Johnson>: Okay. Thanks.
Operator
Our next question will come from the line of Eric Selle from SunTrust. Please proceed.
<Q - Eric Selle>: Hey, solid work. I know these results were not generated in one quarter, a lot of years of hard work,
so I just definitely wanted to compliment your team on that. But, Mike, a couple of questions. One on the revolver, I
believe you're saying is the growth of $1 billion would be used in China. And I was wondering what is the split of that,
is that mainly for inventory or consumer financing or both, I mean what kind of – how are you guys expecting to attract
that market?
<A - Neil M. Schloss>: It's really backstop liquidity like we would use the corporate revolver for, but specific for use
by Ford Credit in China.
<Q - Eric Selle>: Okay.
<A - Michael L. Seneski>: Yeah. So it's really for future liquidity needs, Eric. We haven't identified where we would
utilize it and hopefully at some point it'll be used maybe similar to the SUV-syndicated facility, but we'll see going
forward.
<Q - Eric Selle>: Okay. And then secondly, we've seen some volatility in rates recently, and how do you guys look at
some of the scenarios, higher rates, steeper curve, that we've been seeing lately, on your short-term and long-term
profits. I know you guys have floating floorplan assets and your other assets re-priced very rapidly. But what interest
rate environment concerned you and kind of what triggered do you guys have to offset that, that sensitivity?
<A - Michael L. Seneski>: Well, Eric, as you know, asset liability management is a key part of our enterprise risk
management. And we work diligently to ensure that the risk profile of our assets and our liability is as matched as
possibly can be. If you look in the – I think in the Q or the K, it's roughly a no change for a 100 basis point
instantaneous increase in rate. I think the thing that is concerning to us is, whenever anything unexpected happens.
Right? If it's already priced into the forwards, if it's consistent with market expectations, then we're pricing the business
the right way and it's performing the right way. It's when unique shocks happen, and we're not expecting that, but even
if that were to happen, at most, we're going to be a quarter out before we adjust the pricing of our assets and be back on
path.
<Q - Eric Selle>: Okay. That's great. That's great. And then back over towards the manufacturing side. I saw that the
materials were up by $1 billion and that carried through both overall automotive and North America. I know a ton of
that is mix and content on the truck production [indiscernible] (31:45) can you split out temporary that will fade as we
go throughout the year? I know there's a lot of upfront tooling and marketing launch costs. How much of that will fade?
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: So, I think you're referring to slide 7, [ph] material excluding (32:06) commodities.
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2015-07-28
Event Description: Q2 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income
Page 9 of 10
<Q - Eric Selle>: Yeah. It's [ph] material excluding (32:08) commodities, about $990 million, I believe it was
[indiscernible] (32:11) $1 billion on the manufacturing side?
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Yeah, $996 million. So just to clarify, that does not include mix. The mix effect we
include in the volume of mix category that's the first bar there. So this is – the number stated there is a constant mix.
So, obviously a good chunk of that, as you observed, is in North America and that's driven by the new products that
we've launched in the content on those products, as well as the product improvements. And as we've discussed earlier,
it's then associated with a stronger revenue on a per unit basis, but it's also driving the better product acceptance that we
get, then the richer mix and better volume. So we'd expect that to continue through the quarter as the comparison from
last year is largely there through the year and then thereafter it will ease off.
Of course, the other thing we do is we have a very strong cost reduction program. So we typically – we launched some
products, and then we drive our cost reduction efforts and then over time that mitigate some of the cost [ph] adds
(33:28) that are in. But as we said, a lot of this is in North America and you have to look down at the whole equation.
And you had focused on the bottom line profit and margin and this quarter even without a full run of F-150, we
generated an 11% operating margin in North America, which is pretty much best-in-class.
<Q - Eric Selle>: Yeah, that's very heady. And, my final question I'm kind of surprised and I guess, I don't know why
I'm surprised. But, here we are, almost August and no one's asked a UAW talk question. And, maybe this is something
that you may not be able to touch. But, it's expected to be kind of a pretty benign year, but there is a differential
between Ford and their two in-town creditors on the Tier 2 percentage.
I guess, my question is, is there any way for Ford to avoid the higher labor cost via a buyout or a transfer of some
active healthcare over to a trust? I mean, is there a way that you guys can avoid higher labor cost and help narrow that
differential?
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Well, we have nothing to add as you probably expect at this point in time. We had an
opening ceremony with the UAW last week. We do acknowledge the data that you refer to. So, third-parties have
published the data that shows our position relative to our both domestic competition and to the transplants. And of
course that's front of mind as we have our discussions with the UAW on the need to be competitive. So, our team is
very focused on that.
<Q - Eric Selle>: Thanks a lot and thanks once again, solid quarter.
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Thank you.
<A - Michael L. Seneski>: Thanks, Eric.
Operator
And with no further questions, I'd like to turn the call back over to Stephen for closing remarks.
Steve Dahle
Thank you, Krystal. With that, we would like to conclude today's call. Thanks to all for joining us.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, you may now disconnect. Have a great day.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2015-07-28
Event Description: Q2 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income
Page 10 of 10
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.