Company Name: Comcast
Company Ticker: CMCSA US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 13
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Jason S. Armstrong
• Brian L. Roberts
• Michael J. Cavanagh
• Neil Smit
• Stephen B. Burke
Other Participants
• Craig Eder Moffett
• Benjamin Daniel Swinburne
• John C. Hodulik
• Jessica Jean Reif Cohen
• Philip A. Cusick
• Vijay Jayant
• Brett Joseph Feldman
• Marci L. Ryvicker
• Michael L. McCormack
• Bryan Kraft
• James M. Ratcliffe
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Comcast Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At this
time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Please note that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, Mr. Jason Armstrong. Please go ahead, Mr.
Armstrong.
Jason S. Armstrong
Thank you, operator and welcome everyone. Joining me on this morning's call are Brian Roberts, Mike Cavanagh,
Steve Burke and Neil Smit. Brian and Mike will make formal remarks and Steve and Neil will also be available for
Q&A.
As always, let me now refer you to slide number two, which contains our safe harbor disclaimer, and remind you that
this conference call may include forward-looking statements subject to certain risks and uncertainties. In addition, in
this call, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to our 8-K for the reconciliation of
non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
With that, let me turn the call to Brian Roberts for his comments. Brian?
Company Name: Comcast
Company Ticker: CMCSA US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 13
Brian L. Roberts
Thank you, Jason, and good morning, everyone. I'm pleased to report very strong third quarter results. This is a real
reflection of how well the various parts of our business are working and, more importantly, how well they are working
together. In the quarter, we grew revenue by 11.2% and operating cash flow by 8.4%. Our performance was
broad-based with broadband, business services, film and Theme Parks leading the way.
Over in Cable Communications, our investments in our network, our X1 platform, and customer service are all paying
off. Revenue and operating cash flow growth were each over 6%. We added 156,000 customer relationships, up over
90% from the prior year. Our video results were the best for a third quarter in nine years and our broadband results
were the best for a third quarter in six years.
Similar to last quarter, churn was a standout, as we saw an improvement across every category. We continue to push
hard on X1 and have now accelerated our deployment to over 40,000 boxes per day. Roughly 25% of our video
subscribers now have X1 and the reaction from our customers, together with the financial benefits that we're seeing,
continues to indicate we should go even faster in taking that rate higher.
Encouragingly, as we get further into our base, the magnitude of favorable impact on churn, additional outlets, VOD
viewing and DVR uptake remain at a high level. In addition, there's a deep list of initiatives that are adding to our value
proposition for our customers. Last quarter, we talked about launching a voice remote. Today, we've already deployed
nearly 1.5 million of them. And we are confident that we have unrivaled content rights, which makes it much more
important for us to facilitate the discovery of that content.
The voice remote is exactly the type of solution, and the customer feedback has been terrific. In addition, we scaled our
Xfinity On Campus offering, nearly quadrupling the number of participating universities versus last year to 26.
Business services delivered another excellent quarter with revenue growth of nearly 20%. We continue our progress in
small business, have established ourselves as a strong competitor in the mid-sized segment and recently announced that
we created a new enterprise services group targeting Fortune 1000 customers, where we've already had some good
early success.
At NBCUniversal, things continued to exceed our expectations. I'm thrilled to report a 17% operating cash flow for
growth for the quarter, which is the same number for year-to-date. At film, the third quarter was remarkable in many
ways and continued the terrific run we've had this year. Minions and Jurassic World sustained our box office streak into
the third quarter. On August 5, we surpassed the prior record for the highest grossing year ever for a movie studio in
worldwide box office and this is the first time any studio has had three films cross the $1 billion mark in theatrical
receipts in the same year.
At our broadcast and Cable Networks, while industry-wide ratings remain challenged, we had some real success in this
past quarter. NBC was the number one broadcast network for the fifth summer in a row and has continued the
momentum into the fall, winning premiere week for the fourth straight year.
The relative strength in broadcast is diversified across sports with the number one rated show on TV in Sunday Night
Football, paired with the number one rated reality show and we're number one in Nightly News and in Late Night.
Now, we have the fall's top-rated new show with Blindspot.
In our Cable Networks, NBC Sports Network put up its most watched third quarter ever, thanks to NASCAR's debut
and continued growth in viewership for the English Premier League. At USA Network, Mr. Robot was the number two
new basic cable drama of the summer.
We're delighted about our progress in the Theme Parks and, more specifically, about our ability to manage for growth
and returns. Parks delivered another quarter of double-digit revenue and operating cash flow growth. Notably, we had
record attendance despite the anniversary of our launch of the new Harry Potter attraction in Orlando.
Also, during the quarter, we announced our intention to acquire a 51% stake in Universal Studios Japan. We believe
that in Japan, and in other parks, the combination of wonderful intellectual property and new attractions, along with
Company Name: Comcast
Company Ticker: CMCSA US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 13
great service and value for families translates into very strong performance.
As we look at our overall results, the third quarter and year-to-date are reflective of a special company with businesses
that are working well together and focused on execution. Our operating cash flow is increasing. We're reinvesting back
in the businesses for growth and also looking for strategic investments along the way such as Universal Studios Japan.
And importantly, we're returning a significant amount of cash to our shareholders.
We believe that we're on the right path to continue to successfully create value for our customers and shareholders and
we're confident and excited about our future. I'd like to now turn it to over to Mike, who, with a full quarter under his
belt, has made a really seamless and excellent transition into Comcast.
Over to you for a more detailed review of the quarter.
Michael J. Cavanagh
Good morning, everybody. Let me begin by briefly reviewing our third quarter consolidated financial results starting on
slide four. As Brian highlighted, consolidated revenue for the third quarter increased 11.2% to $18.7 billion, with
consolidated operating cash flow increasing 8.4% to $6.2 billion. The primary drivers of this growth were high-speed
data and business services at Cable and film and parks at NBCUniversal.
Earnings per share for the third quarter was $0.80, an increase of 9.6% when you exclude $724 million of tax
adjustments and $49 million of transaction-related costs that were in last year's third quarter results.
Free cash flow for the quarter increased 6.8% to $2.7 billion and free cash flow per share of $1.06 was up 11.6%,
driven by strong operating cash flow growth, partially offset by higher capital expenditures and cash taxes. On a
year-to-date basis, free cash flow increased 13.5% to $7.3 billion and free cash flow per share of $2.90 has grown
17.9%.
Now, let's go into the results of the businesses in more detail, starting with Cable Communications on slide five. We are
very pleased with the strength of our Cable Communications results. Cable revenue increased 6.3% to $11.7 billion, as
we added 156,000 customer relationships, a 90% improvement compared to last year's third quarter and increased total
revenue per customer relationship by over 4% to $143 per month. These results demonstrate the strength and health of
our business and were driven by strong growth in high-speed data and business services, as well as higher video
revenue.
Taking a closer look at our video business, third quarter revenue increased 3.3%, reflecting rate adjustments and an
increasing number of customers adding advanced outlets and services like high-definition TV and DVR services. In
fact, we added nearly 2.5 times the number of advanced customers in the quarter compared to last year as customers are
recognizing the value in our innovative X1 platform and extensive amount of programming. This also contributed
towards improving our customer losses by 41% over last year's results. We lost a combined 48,000 video customers in
the quarter, primarily driven by another quarter of improved churn.
We're pleased with the progress we've been making in rolling out X1, which accounted for nearly 60% of video
connects in the quarter. We added nearly a million X1 customers in the quarter, including both new customers and
existing customers upgrading to the platform. X1 net adds increased more than 20% from the second quarter and were
up nearly 50% compared to last year with X1 customers now representing roughly one-quarter of our total video
customer base.
The positive benefits from X1 continued in the third quarter. X1 customers have significantly lower voluntary churn,
over 50% higher DVR penetration and take a greater number of advanced outlets. This results in higher average
revenue per customer for X1 base. As the X1 customer base expands, we see the positive impact on our overall video
results.
A final comment on video, we're responding to different customer preferences, segmenting the market effectively with
a variety of video packages and offers, like our Internet Plus offering to appeal to customers that might otherwise
Company Name: Comcast
Company Ticker: CMCSA US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 13
choose to purchase only broadband from us. Providing the right introduction to our products allows us to better retain
our customers and potentially migrate them to higher-end packages over time, improving our customer lifetime value.
The strong momentum in our high-speed data business continued. Revenue increased 10.2% during the quarter, making
it, again, the leading contributor to overall Cable revenue growth, driven by impressive growth in our customer base as
well as rate adjustments, and an increasing number of customers taking higher-speed services.
We added a combined 320,000 data customers during the quarter, with 73% of our customers now receiving speeds of
50 megabits per second or greater. We continue to differentiate our product through speed upgrades and the fastest
in-home Wi-Fi with our advanced wireless gateways. Over 70% of our residential high-speed data customers now have
one of our gateways, which are also fueling our impressive growth in Wi-Fi hot spots. Our hot spots now number more
than 11.7 million across our footprint compared to 4.9 million in last year's third quarter.
Voice revenue declined by 1.4% in the third quarter. As we expanded eligibility of X1 to Double Play customers, our
combined voice customer net additions slowed to 17,000 and ARPU has declined modestly. However, voice remains an
important product for our customers and, we believe, adds value to the bundle.
Turning to business services, it has been the second largest contributor to overall Cable revenue growth for 18 of the
last 19 quarters, with third quarter revenue increasing 19.5% to $1.2 billion. This rate of growth is especially
impressive, given that business services is approaching a $5 billion run rate business annually. Over 70% of that
revenue was generated by small businesses where our performance is especially strong, with growth driven by
customer additions and higher rates.
At the same time, the contribution from mid-sized businesses continues to increase. We feel great about our runway for
growth in business services, even more so with the recently announced creation of a new division that will target
Fortune 1000 companies and other large enterprises.
If you look under the hood at many of the businesses we are targeting, they resemble an aggregation of small
businesses, those with branch systems such as banks, retailers and restaurant chains. In these cases, the needs of the
local branches look very much like the small and medium-sized business customers we serve so well today. We're in
the early stages of pursuing the enterprise opportunity, but believe it adds yet another avenue of growth for this already
robust business.
And lastly on slide five, Cable advertising revenue was relatively flat during the third quarter, due to lower political
revenue. Excluding political, our Cable advertising revenue increased 8%, primarily driven by increased media
advertising ahead of the launch of the fall TV season. This level of increased spending was timing related and should
be lower in the fourth quarter. Also keep in mind we will have a difficult comparison in the fourth quarter, as we had
$110 million of political revenue during last year's fourth quarter, fueled by election year spending.
Turning to slide six, third quarter Cable Communications operating cash flow increased 6.4% to $4.7 billion. During
the second quarter call, we detailed our plans to increase our investment in the customer experience as well as continue
our aggressive X1 rollout, which would drive higher customer service and technical operation expense. While this is
reflected in what we saw in the third quarter, our better revenue performance and lower program expense growth
allowed us to deliver flat margins at 40.4%.
Third quarter program expenses increased 6.4%. This rate of growth is lower than the 9.6% increase we reported in the
second quarter, due to the lower pay-per-view costs and timing of programming deals. We expect fourth quarter
program expense to increase at a similar rate of growth and, as a result, our full year 2015 program expense growth will
be slightly lower than our previous guidance of about 8%.
As we look beyond 2015, we expect programming cost growth to remain elevated, driven in part by continued
increases in retransmission consent fees and higher sports programming costs, as well as our commitment to further
expand our content rights for our On Demand and TV Everywhere platforms. We plan to continue to add more content,
out-of-home rights, stacking rights and back seasons ensuring that we have the most compelling and competitive video
product on the market.
Company Name: Comcast
Company Ticker: CMCSA US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 13
In the third quarter, non-programming costs continued to bear impact of the X1 rollout and our investment in the
customer experience, with technical and product support costs up by 8% and customer service expenses up 8.4%. At
the beginning of the year, we indicated stable margins were expected. Through the first three quarters, we've delivered
on that with our year-to-date margin of 40.7%, right around last year's result of 40.9%.
We feel confident we can continue to largely offset these higher expenses with an improving business mix, as
high-margin businesses like high-speed data and business services continue to grow, and ongoing improvement in
efficiencies as our investment in X1 and customer service begin to pay off.
Overall, Cable's results prove we are executing well and competing effectively with innovative products and services
that provide a great value to our customers. We're focused on continuing to deliver strong and profitable growth along
with healthy customer results. Now, let's move on to NBCUniversal's results.
So, on slide 7, you can see NBCUniversal delivered exceptional results in the third quarter, as revenue increased nearly
21% and operating cash flow increased 17%, driven by film's record-breaking theatrical slate and strong parks results.
At Cable Networks, third quarter revenue increased 7%, primarily driven by an 8.6% increase in distribution revenue,
which partially reflects higher affiliate fees associated with the premier of NASCAR on our NBC Sports Network
during the quarter, the first quarter in our new 10-year deal. In addition, advertising revenue grew 2% as the positive
contribution from NASCAR advertising more than offset what would've been a modest decrease in advertising revenue
overall, since ratings declines across many of our networks more than offset increases in prices and volume.
Last, we benefited from higher content licensing revenue, reflecting the timing of content delivered under our licensing
agreements. Cable Networks operating cash flow declined 3.9% due to higher program expenses that include the timing
of our NASCAR rights fees.
In broadcast, we did well this quarter with entertainment, sports, news and Telemundo, all contributing to revenue
growth of just over 11%. This growth was driven by strong retrans and content licensing revenue, which reflects the
timing of content provided under our licensing agreements as well as new syndication deals for Law & Order.
In addition, advertising revenue increased 3% despite the difficult comparison created by one less NFL game this
quarter compared to last year. The fact that we were still able to report modestly positive advertising growth speaks to
the strong scatter market, with the third quarter trending better than the first half of the year. Importantly, this higher
demand in the scatter market has continued into the fourth quarter. Finally, operating cash flow at broadcast increased
6%, as expenses increased in the third quarter, primarily driven by higher studio production costs.
At film, our focus on well-known intellectual property is delivering exceptional results. In the third quarter, film
delivered revenue growth of 64% and operating cash flow more than doubled to $376 million compared to last year,
driven by the record-breaking performances of Minions and Jurassic World. This was the second most profitable
quarter in Universal's history topped only by our second quarter 2015 results. In the fourth quarter, we have fewer
theatrical releases, but we will continue to benefit from our successful film slate as these films move to the home
entertainment and content licensing windows.
And at Theme Parks, record attendance this summer fueled 14% revenue growth despite lapping the July 2014 opening
of Harry Potter – Diagon Alley and Hogwarts Express. Three-quarters of our Orlando guests now purchase
park-to-park tickets. Hollywood also contributed to our third quarter growth, driven by the success of Fast and Furious:
Supercharged, which opened strong on June 25.
With higher attendance and healthy per capita spending growth at both parks, operating cash flow grew 14%, net of
$18 million of transaction-related costs associated with our plans to develop a theme park in China. Lastly, recall that
last summer was more of a soft opening for Potter, so while we believe the momentum of Harry Potter will continue,
the growth rates will likely slow in the fourth quarter as we compare against a fully opened Harry Potter.
Now, let's move to slide eight to review our consolidated and segment capital expenditures. Consolidated capital
expenditures continued to track to our investment plan and increased 11% to $2.2 billion, driven by increased
investments at Cable. At Cable Communications, third quarter capital expenditures increased 12.6% to $1.9 billion,
Company Name: Comcast
Company Ticker: CMCSA US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 13
equal to 15.8% of Cable revenue compared to 14.9% in the third quarter of 2014.
We expect the fourth quarter to be another quarter of heavy activity, reflecting continued investments in customer
premise equipment like X1 and wireless gateways. In addition, we plan to increase spending on cloud-based initiatives
such as our cloud DVR service, business services, reflecting the expansion into the mid and enterprise markets and
network capacity, bringing our full year CapEx as a percent of Cable revenue to be right around 15%.
At NBCUniversal, third quarter capital expenditures remained relatively stable at $289 million, with the majority of our
spending at Theme Parks, as we build new attractions, including Harry Potter in Hollywood and King Kong in Orlando.
We continue to expect that NBCUniversal's 2015 capital expenditures will remain relatively stable at 2014's level, with
over half directed to our Theme Park segment, as the investments we are making in our parks are clearly generating
strong returns as they drive increased attendance and per capita spending.
Moving to slide nine, as I mentioned earlier, we generated $2.7 billion of free cash flow in the quarter and $7.3 billion
of free cash flow year-to-date. In the third quarter, we returned $2.8 billion of capital to shareholders, an increase of
111% compared to the third quarter of 2014, including dividend payments totaling $623 million and share repurchases
totaling $2.2 billion. We bought back more stock in the quarter than the typical pro rata amount, given the weakness in
the share price in late-August and September, as well as a desire to get ahead of the blackout period that will
accompany the plan to merge the A and K shares.
On a full year basis, we continue to expect to achieve our planned repurchase of $6.75 billion of our common shares. In
terms of leverage, we ended the quarter at 1.9 times net leverage. The pending acquisition of a 51% stake in Universal
Studios Japan would've taken that to about 2 times net leverage. As I said before, we expect to continue to operate with
leverage in this range. As a reminder, we'll talk about 2016 capital plans on our next quarter's earnings call.
Yesterday, we announced our plan to reclassify each share of Comcast's Class A special common stock into one share
of Comcast Class A common stock. We believe the reclassification will benefit our shareholders by, among other
things, eliminating investor confusion caused by having two classes of publicly-traded stock and improving the trading
liquidity of our publicly-traded stock. The reclassification will require approval by each class, which we anticipate will
occur at a shareholder's meeting by year-end.
Thanks, everybody, for dialing in. And now I'll hand it over to Jason for Q&A.
Jason S. Armstrong
Thanks, Mike. Regina, let's open up the call for Q&A, please.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Craig Moffett with MoffettNathanson.
Please go ahead.
<Q - Craig Eder Moffett>: Hi. Good morning. Brian, I wonder if you could update us a bit on your thinking about
wireless and how it fits into the longer-term business plan. There's been reports this quarter about exercising the option
for the Verizon MVNO and we're, I guess, about a month away from filing a short-form for the 600 megahertz option.
Could you just talk about those two things and what your thinking is at the moment for how wireless fits?
<A - Brian L. Roberts>: Well, we don't have any new news today. So, let me just say that we believe that wireless
obviously is an important area for consumers and how they are in the future and today. We have incredible success
with our Wi-Fi network, which is the largest in-home Wi-Fi network as well as terrific out-of-home Wi-Fi. We're
seeing a majority of bits travel over that Wi-Fi network. But it takes about six months to activate the MVNO. We've
Company Name: Comcast
Company Ticker: CMCSA US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 13
had told everybody that before, we were going to trial some things and test some things after we activate, and we'll
update people as that progresses.
But it's an opportunity to take the network and the investments we've made – the successful investments that we've
made and try and see if we can continue relationships and product innovation that the team's working on. Regarding the
auction, again, no news today; we've seen some of the opportunity for NBC in that part of the auction and it's certainly
something that we're likely to participate in. And beyond that, we're studying it, and we always look at all the options
for the company. But we're pretty excited about the road map that we're trying to develop. Neil, anything you want to
add?
<A - Neil Smit>: I think you covered it, Brian. We're in the test and learn mode and I think it's a natural part of the
evolution of our entry or our participation in the mobile space beyond Wi-Fi, but we're testing and learning and nothing
new to report.
<Q - Craig Eder Moffett>: Would you think that longer-term an MVNO is a satisfactory end point or would you think
of it more as a starting point and then eventually you want to have owners' economics if you pursue that business?
<A - Neil Smit>: We don't know. We're evaluating opportunities.
<A - Brian L. Roberts>: Yeah, I think we've always felt it's a part of a product set. I don't think we feel that we have
to necessarily in anyway seek owners' economics. And just to clarify, what I was – make sure I was clear, the NBC
side, we intend to participate. The Cable side is something we'll continue to study.
<Q - Craig Eder Moffett>: All right. Thank you. That's helpful, Brian.
<A - Jason S. Armstrong>: Thanks, Craig. Next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
<Q - Benjamin Daniel Swinburne>: Thank you. Good morning. I'll try two. Mike, can you talk about the leverage
comfort zone for the company around that 2 times? In other words, how high would you go if you saw something really
compelling on the acquisition front? And how low would you drift before you sort of default to buy back if you didn't
see anything out there? And then I'll ask my second question to Neil.
You guys talk a lot about X1 in the prepared remarks. Can you talk broadly about your customer segmentation that's
allowing you to put out kind of 2% customer growth every quarter, things like Internet Plus, Internet Pro and I believe
you've been testing a stream product that's pure over the top. Any color on sort of the ongoing customer segmentation
activities and new product pipeline? Thanks. Thank you both.
<A - Michael J. Cavanagh>: Thanks, Ben. So, it's Mike. So, on leverage, we used to say, and I changed this in the last
quarter, that we'd be at the 1.5 times to 2 times net leverage was the range that the company was drifting down towards
from being at a higher level post GE. I think we sit now at 1.9 times net leverage at the end of the third quarter. But as I
said earlier, when you pro forma for the deal we did in the Japan parks, that takes us right at 2 times.
I feel quite good at around 2 times, that that gives us the ability to do all we need to do to return lots of capital to
shareholders, to invest in the businesses organically, and to give us some flexibility around things like Vox, BuzzFeed,
parks and so forth. So in that range, right around 2 times is fine to allow us to do all that. And I won't speculate on any
larger M&A. As Brian said before, we're pretty comfortable with the portfolio of businesses we have.
<A - Neil Smit>: Concerning segmentation, X1 was about 60% of our connects this quarter and so we're seeing a
healthy growth of X1. We offer different products based on the segment. For example, the Internet Plus applies well to
millennials who want a great Internet product and a lighter video product. On those customers, after their churn is
considered, we up-sell about 30% of those. So, we're able to get new people into the system and then up-sell them or
Company Name: Comcast
Company Ticker: CMCSA US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 13
upgrade them.
Our On Campus product has been a great success. We are on 26 campuses now and continue to grow. It's a great
product. It serves the video to where the customer, in this case, the student, wants to consume it, which is in their dorm
room. We stream direct. We launched the stream product in a trial market and that also applies to the millennials or
younger audience.
And finally, Watchables, we launched earlier this month, and that's about 32 providers of semi-professional content.
So, it's getting the content that's not normally what we've been carrying in the past. And we think that will attract
another segment. So, we're very careful in how we segment the audiences and we're getting a better quality customer
and holding on to them for longer.
<Q - Benjamin Daniel Swinburne>: Thank you.
<A - Jason S. Armstrong>: Thanks, Ben. Next question, please?
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of John Hodulik with UBS. Please go ahead.
<Q - John C. Hodulik>: Great. Thanks. Maybe for Neil, can you comment on the strategy and timing of the DOCSIS
3.1 rollout? And if we look back, you've been adding about 1.2 million, 1.3 million new HSD subs per year for the last
few years. Does this initiative sort of help you maintain that growth or could we see some acceleration on the subs side
or ARPU as you get further down the path there? Thanks.
<A - Neil Smit>: Well, as you said, we've continued to add over a million customers for nine years now. In that, we've
done 16 speed increases in the past 13 years, so continue to increase speeds and that's the value that customers are
receiving. We've also, as Mike mentioned in his comments, increased the wireless gateways. So our in-home Wi-Fi is a
strong value-add.
In terms of DOCSIS 3.1, it's where – we have it in the labs. We plan on rolling it out early next year and we think that
will give us more speed capability and we're also working on products that will increase, let's just call it, the smartness
of the Internet not just speed. So, we think we can continue to grow market share and the market is growing. Only 70%
of customers have a high-speed connection, so there's market growth opportunity there as well.
<Q - John C. Hodulik>: Okay. Thanks.
<A - Jason S. Armstrong>: Thanks, John. Next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Jessica Reif Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.
<Q - Jessica Jean Reif Cohen>: Thanks. I guess two questions. First, can you talk about what you're doing in terms of
mining data and driving targeted more relevant advertising across all your platforms, so across Comcast Cable and also
NBCUniversal's businesses?
<A - Brian L. Roberts>: Well, let me just start by saying that we see the two parts of the company working together is
really part of what's powering these earnings results and across the board. And one of the areas that we've identified as
a management team is that question, there's the part of the – how do we improve the technology, so we have a better
targeted information? What's the data that can assist the advertisers and the networks in having the right relationship
with what they're offering?
And it's an important area to the company because of both parts of the company have a lot of advertising dollars. It's
nice to see the spot market being very successful right now and supportive of this space. So, I think it's a lot of chance
Company Name: Comcast
Company Ticker: CMCSA US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 13
for us to perform well. The other thing with data is sort of measurement and having buyers be more knowledgeable
through whatever means with that data gets to the marketplace. And so, we're looking at all those opportunities across
the company.
Steve or Neil, you please jump in.
<A - Stephen B. Burke>: Well, our advertising group, which is now unified under Linda Yaccarino, all the cable
channels, all broadcast and all digital. She's currently not only allowing advertisers to sell across all those platforms,
but to do so in a way that's informed by information or complemented by targetability on the Comcast side, which is
obviously a very, very unique product in a world where advertisers want to marry the proven storytelling of a television
spot with the targetability of the Internet. So, she's in the market with those products right now. They're doing very
well. And those products are going to get more sophisticated as we complement them with more information, more
set-top box data, et cetera.
<Q - Jessica Jean Reif Cohen>: And then...
<A - Jason S. Armstrong>: Next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line Phil Cusick with JP Morgan. Please go ahead.
<Q - Philip A. Cusick>: Hey, guys, if I can squeeze in a clarification and a question. First, on – following up on Ben's
question on the balance sheet size, in the past, you've talked about the size of the balance sheet being as important as
leverage and the $50 billion range being sort of the high level, but with more and more companies at a $100 billion
debt balance, are you more comfortable that you can ladder out maturities enough to take the balance sheet
substantially higher?
And then second, you mentioned programming expense coming in below 8% this quarter and a comment about
continued investment rights. How should we think about that for 2016? What could accelerate growth? Or should we
think about that 8% as a reasonable run rate? Thank you.
<A - Michael J. Cavanagh>: It's Mike. On the balance sheet side or the size of the debt issuance of the company, I
think that continues and should continue to be a factor that we think about. We're a large issuer and we want to make
sure that through the course of time we're always able to carry the balances at good rates through time.
<A - Neil Smit>: And concerning the programming cost, this was a lower quarter than usual in terms of percentage of
increase. We do see that increasing. We'll be slightly below our 8% number that we've given previous guidance on.
And I think we're not done with the budgeting process yet for 2016, so we're not prepared to comment on that yet.
<Q - Philip A. Cusick>: Thanks, guys.
<A - Jason S. Armstrong>: Thanks, Phil. Next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Vijay Jayant with Evercore ISI. Please go ahead.
<Q - Vijay Jayant>: Thanks. Just continuing from one prior question, in terms of the Internet Plus offering, can you
talk about – because the step-up is pretty substantial, can you talk about what customers do after their one-year
promotional price, given that you already have that experience? And I just wanted to get a sort of philosophical
question about Altice has come to U.S. mainland and talking about 40% margins for cable companies that are
one-fourth the size of Comcast, and you're already at 40%, so any thoughts about is there opportunity on the margin
side on Cable, given some of the strategies they're contemplating? Thank you.
Company Name: Comcast
Company Ticker: CMCSA US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 13
<A - Neil Smit>: Concerning Internet Plus, as I mentioned, when they roll off the promotional rate, some people step
up to higher level packages, more video, about 30% do. Some people roll off or churn off and some people extend in
the existing to step up in their pricing. So, we find it's an attractive way of getting customers who are initially only
interested in Internet onto a video product and then expand the package from there, get a foot in the door.
Concerning Altice, it's good to see others recognize the value in the cable market as we have. There's always things we
can learn. They do some things – some interesting things with self-service, their IT consolidation, their structural
approach, and we're always open to learning.
<Q - Vijay Jayant>: Thanks.
<A - Jason S. Armstrong>: Thanks, Vijay. Next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Feldman with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
<Q - Brett Joseph Feldman>: Thanks for taking the question. If we could just talk a little bit about your view on the
competitive environment in the video market, because if we look at some of your biggest competitors, it feels like their
emphasis has shifted. Verizon is very focused on custom TV. AT&T is pivoting away from U-verse. Dish seems very
interested in Sling versus its traditional product. And you've obviously invested a lot in some of your premium offers.
And so the question is sort of how do you feel about the competitive intensity? And then just in general, you've been
showing improved trends year-over-year, do you feel like that's sustainable?
<A - Neil Smit>: I think the competitive intensity is much the same as it has been in the past. The base offers, there are
attractive promotional offers, but the base rate remains in the same ballpark. I think different people are trying different
things. We feel the X1 platform is something we can build on. There's greater viewership. There's more VOD
consumption, both transactional and non-transactional. The churn reduction is significant. And there are more AOs,
more DVR usage. So, we're investing behind the X1 platform. And we feel we can continue to – our objective is to
continue to improve year-over-year on an ongoing basis.
<A - Brian L. Roberts>: I would just add that the thing that I feel good about is the video product that we're offering
has tremendous momentum. It's the best in the market. You just – people that don't live in Philadelphia or one of our
markets, when they see it, they go, wow! I wish I could get that. With the ease now, with the voice remote, we'll put
millions of those out in the next several quarters. It just makes it even that much better.
And our service initiatives and the improvements that are being made in the reliability and on time and the network
reliability, there's a tremendous focus here. And I think that's improving as well. And so you put all that together, I
really think we have a great momentum and a good strategy.
<A - Neil Smit>: I compliment Dave Watson and the operating teams in the field who are really driving the X1 out and
targeting selective segments in the offer.
<A - Brian L. Roberts>: 40,000 a day. That is a huge, huge push.
<Q - Brett Joseph Feldman>: Great. Thanks for taking the question.
<A - Jason S. Armstrong>: Thanks, Brett. Next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
<Q - Marci L. Ryvicker>: Hi. Thanks. I have two questions. The first, Mike, you talked about the enterprise unit
being sort of an aggregation of small businesses. So, it sounds like there will not be a need for a major upgrade to the
Company Name: Comcast
Company Ticker: CMCSA US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 13
network and there's not going to be a need for major investment there, so just want to confirm that I'm reading right
from your comments.
And then, the second question is for Brian. You mentioned, I think, during a press conference around Universal Studio
Japan that this is going to be the beginning of your international expansion. So, I just wanted you to just provide some
more color around that comment. Thanks.
<A - Michael J. Cavanagh>: Marci, it's Mike. I'll start and Neil can finish. But on business services enterprise growth,
it's a continuation of what we're doing. The needs are similar and we are investing. And it is a big source of capital
investment that you've seen in the recent past. And that's going to continue. But we're going to layer on businesses of a
bigger scale that have the profile of the medium-sized enterprises that we already have.
<A - Neil Smit>: And I'd just add that we're targeting the Fortune 1000 companies and other large enterprises that have
300 locations or more. And if you think about it, this type of enterprise customer, we're looking at entities with
branches such as banks, restaurants, retailers, and those are all small customers, like an assembly of small customers.
So, we have managed services to more than 20 large enterprise customers already and have already signed multiple
eight-figure deals.
<A - Brian L. Roberts>: So, one of the things that NBCUniversal does for Comcast and I think Steve put a focus on it
right from the get-go when we moved Jeff Shell to London was to really use this as a way to have the company look at
broader opportunities not just in the United States, but around the world. And we're really happy with the Osaka, Japan
theme park, 51% announcement.
But as we've said, and I think that what I was really referring to was our China opportunity. We have a partnership that
we're in the process of getting complete, all the approvals necessary to go forward. But we are looking forward to
building an entire new Universal in Beijing. And that's a continuation of the – because we're in the theme park
business, when we bought the company, there were no owned assets outside the United States and we will have perhaps
the largest or one of the largest theme parks will be China.
When you see Universal Japan, it's a thriving business that we think we can grow and we're in the process of putting in
the management coming from Florida. The Chief Financial Officer of Universal Parks is going to move there. And the
team is really ready for these kind of opportunities and can hit the ground running. There's nothing else at this time that
we're working on specifically like that. But this was a unique opportunity and it complements what we're going to do in
Beijing.
<Q - Marci L. Ryvicker>: Got it. Thank you very much.
<A - Jason S. Armstrong>: Thank you, Marci. Next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Mike McCormack with Jefferies. Please go ahead.
<Q - Michael L. McCormack>: Hey, guys. Thanks. Maybe we can just circle back on Brett's question, the
competitive landscape, more specifically, talking about the recent combination of AT&T and DirecTV. AT&T is out
there with pretty aggressive wireless and DirecTV bundles with pretty good bounties and sort of bill credits, if you will.
Just wanted to get a sense for if you've seen any significant change in appetite for that combined wireless video bundle?
And then just secondly, on the retrans side, if you can give us an update on the pacing there and any risk to the
trajectory?
<A - Neil Smit>: I think on the competitive side, as I said, we haven't seen a meaningful difference in approach or sub
numbers, our churn – our numbers are the best in nine years and it's driven by churn. So, you think that if there was a
very attractive offer, you'd see higher churn, but our churn numbers remain lower. And concerning the...
Company Name: Comcast
Company Ticker: CMCSA US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 13
<A - Stephen B. Burke>: Retrans.
<A - Neil Smit>: Retrans.
<A - Brian L. Roberts>: Was he talking to you or Steve?
<Q - Michael L. McCormack>: That was for Steve.
<A - Neil Smit>: I think our retrans, generally speaking, are continuing on a steady curve and there's no real lumpiness
in that number.
<Q - Michael L. McCormack>: Thanks, guys.
<A - Jason S. Armstrong>: Thanks, Mike. Next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Kraft with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
<Q - Bryan Kraft>: Hi. Good morning. There seems to be some elevated activity in Washington and also in local
government arenas to facilitate more fiber-to-the-home deployment. Like in some of the Google Fiber markets, they
seem to be increasing leaning toward allowing redlining. And so I guess, first, was wondering if you have the same
assessment and second, how much of a concern is this for you that competitors might be able to sort of cream skim and
not have to serve the higher-cost areas? And what do you – if you have any expectations around how that could play
out, I would just be interested in any thoughts you have on that. Thank you.
<A - Brian L. Roberts>: We've seen – this is not a new thing there were similar thoughts when the bells were building
that was not universal. We can't, per se, control that. We obviously want to have as level playing field as one can, but a
pro-competitive strategy, in our opinion, is better than a pro-regulatory strategy. And if there's more competition that's
something that we've been facing for years and nothing we're going to do to change that or want to change that. I think,
if anything, it is a reminder to regulators how competitive this industry is and will be in the future. And that's why it is
so critical that we continue to perform well and sharpen our operating skills and we're showing that.
<Q - Bryan Kraft>: Okay. Thank you.
<A - Jason S. Armstrong>: Thanks, Bryan. Regina, we've got time for one more question.
Operator
Your final question comes from the line of James Ratcliffe with Buckingham Research. Please go ahead.
<Q - James M. Ratcliffe>: Good morning. Thanks for taking the question. Just to dig into the video churn
improvement you've been seeing, how much of that is really X1 driven and how much of it is the benefit from the
investment in customer experience and so how much incremental run rate is there on that both in terms of expanding
X1 and in terms of the customer service investments? Thanks.
<A - Neil Smit>: I think it's been a combination of a number of factors. One is getting people on the X1 platform is
having an effect on churn. The second is we have more people on contracts. And third is that there is more people using
TV Everywhere. A third of our customers are using TV Everywhere on a monthly basis. And finally, I think our
customer experience improvements have helped significantly. If we can get the right customers and keep them longer,
it's going to impact churn. So our customer experience in terms of reducing phone calls, reducing truck rolls, getting
things right the first time and really super-serving our customers is having an impact as well.
<A - Brian L. Roberts>: I just want to sum up from my perspective what was so good about this quarter from where I
sit is the company is working very well together. It was a terrific first nine months of the year, this quarter being in
Company Name: Comcast
Company Ticker: CMCSA US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 13
video the best in nine years, in broadband the best in six years. At NBCUniversal, we basically now have doubled the
cash flow and a run rate to do that. That strength is across so many different parts of the company that are participating
in the technology change that's happening.
As we've talked about, the millennials, we talk also about NBC and investments in Vox and BuzzFeed and the ability to
now hopefully have advertising that can take some of our content and their content and bring it to advertisers, doing all
this while still maintaining the leverage that allows us to buy back shares and the dividend. And Mike Cavanaugh
joining us here and changing the trajectory of that buyback in anticipation of things. And ultimately, it's giving
customers what they want in having a company with a unique set of assets that can do that. And I think we really, in so
many different fronts of the company, did that this quarter. So, we're really pleased. And thank you for your questions
and support.
Jason S. Armstrong
Thanks, Brian, and thanks, everyone, for joining us. That will conclude this today's call. Regina, back to you.
Operator
There will be a replay available of today's call starting at 12:30 PM Eastern Time. It will run through Tuesday,
November 3, at midnight Eastern Time. The dial-in number is 855-859-2056, and the conference ID is 39613302. A
recording of the conference call will also be available on the company's website beginning at 12:30 PM today.
This concludes today's teleconference. Thank you for participating. You may all disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.