Company Name: Amgen
Company Ticker: AMGN US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 16
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Arvind K. Sood
• Robert A. Bradway
• David W. Meline
• Anthony C. Hooper
• Sean E. Harper
Other Participants
• Matthew Roden
• Terence C. Flynn
• Michael J. Yee
• Eric Thomas Schmidt
• Vikram P. Ashoka
• Mark Schoenebaum
• Cory W. Kasimov
• Ying Huang
• Eun K. Yang
• Geoffrey Meacham
• Colleen Hanley
• Christopher J. Raymond
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
My name is Brian, and I will be your conference facilitator today for Amgen's third quarter earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions]
I would now like to introduce Arvind Sood, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Sood, you may begin.
Arvind K. Sood
Okay, Brian. Thank you. Good afternoon, everybody. I would like to welcome you to our conference call to review our
operating performance for the third quarter. Based on our strong results in Q3, I think you'll agree that our business is
performing well, and we are on target to deliver against our long-term objectives and commitment. I think what's really
exciting for us right now is that we are on the verge of a whole new product cycle that is beginning to unfold.
To discuss all these topics and more in much greater detail, our Chairman and CEO, Bob Bradway, will lead the call
today. Bob will provide an overview of our strategic and operational progress, followed by David Meline, our CFO,
who will review our Q2 results and address guidance-related issues. Following David, our head of Global Commercial
Operations, Tony Hooper, will discuss our product performance during the quarter; followed by our head of R&D,
Sean Harper, who will provide an update on recent approvals and our pipeline.
Company Name: Amgen
Company Ticker: AMGN US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 16
So before I turn it over to Bob, I will provide my customary comments and reminders. We will use slides for our
presentation today. These slides have been posted on our website, and a link was sent to you separately by email.
Our comments today will be governed by our Safe Harbor statement, which in summary says that through the course of
our presentation and discussion today, we may make certain forward-looking statements, and actual results could vary
materially.
So with that, I would like to turn the call over to Bob. Bob?
Robert A. Bradway
Good. Thank you, Arvind. Let me welcome our listeners to the call. This is an exciting time today at Amgen. Once
again this quarter, it seems we have a healthy dose of information to share with you. So perhaps before jumping in, I
should provide some context.
Recall that we met with analysts and investors one year ago in New York to lay out our long-term strategy for growth
and our objectives for the next few years. Since then, I'm pleased to report we made steady progress towards achieving
all of those objectives, as you'll hear on this call.
Our strategy for long-term growth starts with innovation. We set as an objective that we would launch six new products
this year. And with the approval this week of IMLYGIC, our drug for melanoma, we're now delivering on the promise
of those six opportunities. And of course we believe that two of these new products, Repatha for cardiovascular disease
and Kyprolis for multiple myeloma, represent particularly significant opportunities for patients and for shareholders.
Sticking with innovation, I'd like to point out that behind our six new launches, our innovative pipeline continues to
advance, with rapid Phase 3 progress in our migraine program, strong new data for romosozumab and a successful
Phase 3 program for etelcalcetide in kidney disease. In addition, as we reported earlier this week, our innovative heart
failure program, omecamtiv mecarbil, delivered promising results in Phase 2b testing, opening the prospect of another
exciting opportunity for us in the field of cardiovascular disease.
Similarly, our biosimilar pipeline has advanced considerably over the past year, with positive Phase 3 data for two of
our nine programs, specifically our HUMIRA and Avastin biosimilars. And Sean will provide more details on all this
progress shortly.
In addition to delivering on the promise of innovation with our newly launched products, we're also delivering strong
financial performance across the board and making steady progress against our longer-term financial growth and
performance objectives. You can see this in our third quarter results today and in our year-to-date performance.
During the quarter, we delivered 14% revenue growth and 18% adjusted earnings per share growth. Our key revenue
growth drivers, ENBREL, Prolia, XGEVA, Sensipar, and Nplate, all performed well in the period, as Tony will convey
in his remarks. Adjusted earnings per share grew faster than revenues, reflecting improved expense discipline and
operating leverage, even as we invested in our new product launch cycle.
On a year-to-date basis, revenues are up 9% and adjusted earnings per share are up 19%. Consistent with our long-term
financial objectives, our operating performance continues to improve as the benefits of our transformation are reflected
across our business. Our 49% adjusted operating margin through the first nine months of the year reflects meaningful
progress against our longer-term operating margin targets. Based on our ongoing strong performance, we're once again
raising our 2015 guidance, as David will explain shortly.
With respect to capital allocation, here, too, our actions are solidly in line with our commitments. Consistent with our
resolve to return an average of 60% of adjusted net income to shareholders through 2018 with a growing dividend and
share buybacks, we expect to increase our quarterly dividend to $1 per share for 2016, an increase of 27%. This comes
on the back of a 30% increase for 2015. Also reflecting on our confidence in the outlook for our business, we recently
increased our share repurchase authorization to $5 billion.
Company Name: Amgen
Company Ticker: AMGN US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 16
As we look towards 2016, we're focused on delivering continued strong performance while advancing our new flow of
products. Obviously, we expect to face increased competition for our legacy products, but we've anticipated these
changes and put ourselves in position to defend our legacy products while growing our newer franchises. Given the
many variables at play in our business and to help you in your planning, we're providing preliminary guidance for
2016, which we'll update when we report our full-year results at the end of January 2016.
Finally, let me remind you that last October we laid out our financial objectives through 2018. A year later, we feel
confident we're on track to meet or exceed these objectives. These include $1.5 billion in savings from our
transformation, double-digit adjusted earnings per share growth on average through 2018 and adjusted operating
margin improvement from 38% in 2013 to in the range of 52% to 54% by 2018.
Before turning it over to David, I'd like to thank my Amgen colleagues, many of whom are listening to this call, for
their unwavering commitment to deliver for patients and shareholders as we launch new products, expand
internationally and continue from a position of strength to transform our company for a great future.
David?
David W. Meline
Okay. Thanks, Bob. Turning to the third quarter, on page five of the slide deck, revenues of $5.7 billion grew 14% year
over year with 14% product sales growth, driven by continued momentum across our product portfolio. Other revenues
increased $24 million year over year, due primarily to a milestone received for the filing of Kyprolis in Japan. Total
revenue and product sales were negatively impacted by approximately 2 percentage points year over year due to
foreign exchange headwinds.
Adjusted operating income at $2.7 billion grew 19% from prior year. Adjusted operating margin improved 2 points to
49% for the quarter, reflecting our continued growth and the benefits from our transformation program along with
significant investment in our launch activities. On an adjusted basis, the cost of sales margin at 13.5% improved by 2.2
points, driven by net selling prices, lower royalties and manufacturing efficiencies.
Research and development expenses at $1.1 billion were up 11% versus the prior year. This increase was driven by
upfront payments for deal activity in the quarter and increased investment in support of new product launches. This
increase was partially offset by savings from transformation and process improvement efforts.
SG&A expenses were up 17% on a year-over-year basis, driven by commercial investments in new product launches
and Enbrel-related payments, partially offset by savings from transformation and process improvement efforts.
Total operating expenses increased 10% year over year and increased 8% sequentially. For the quarter, operating
expenses benefited by approximately 3 percentage points from foreign exchange year over year. We saw an increase of
spending in Q3 versus the prior quarter. This reflects the typical pattern for the business plus our launch investments
this year. Other income and expenses declined by $18 million or 14% on a year-over-year basis to a net expense of
$147 million in the quarter.
The adjusted tax rate was 18% for the quarter, a 0.9 point increase versus Q3 of 2014. This increase was primarily due
to the unfavorable tax impact of changes in the geographic mix of earnings. As a result, adjusted net income and
adjusted earnings per share increased 18% on a year-over-year basis.
Turning next to cash flow and the balance sheet, on page six. For the third quarter we generated $2.7 billion in free
cash flow, an increase of $0.2 billion over the prior year. This increase was driven by higher operating income.
Total debt outstanding ended Q3 at $31.8 billion and cash and investments totaled $31.1 billion. Additionally, our third
quarter 2015 dividend was $0.79 per share, an increase of 30% versus the prior year. In the third quarter of 2015, we
increased our share repurchase activity versus the prior year, with $700 million of cash deployed to share repurchases,
or approximately 4.6 million shares in the period.
Company Name: Amgen
Company Ticker: AMGN US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 16
Turning to the outlook for the business for the remainder of 2015 on page seven, we remain on track with our plans to
grow the business and invest for the future while transforming to a more agile and efficient operating model, including
delivering over $400 million of efficiency savings from the transformation, which is being reinvested this year in the
business to fund our significant new product launches.
With regard to our updated outlook for 2015 revenue, we are increasing our guidance to $21.4 billion to $21.6 billion
from our prior range of to $21.1 billion to $21.4 billion, reflecting solid revenue performance. Reported growth will
moderate as we complete the year, reflecting the expected normalization of relatively high customer inventories as well
as the effects of competition on our legacy products.
We are also increasing our 2015 adjusted earnings per share outlook to $9.95 to $10.10 a share from the previous $9.55
to $9.80 forecast. The revised earnings outlook reflects our strong year-to-date performance, including revenue growth
and lower expenses due to cost discipline. For the fourth quarter, we expect operating expenses to increase by around
$0.2 billion sequentially, reflecting normal spending patterns as well as continued launch investments.
In terms of the adjusted tax rate, our guidance range of 18% to 19% is unchanged and is consistent with our
year-to-date adjusted tax rate of 18.4%. As a reminder, this guidance continues to exclude the possible benefit of the
federal R&D tax credit in 2015. We continue to expect capital expenditures of approximately $700 million this year, in
line with our previous guidance.
As we approach the end of 2015, we are pleased with our progress again this year. We expect to meet or exceed the
commitments provided for the 2014 to 2018 period, including double-digit adjusted EPS growth on average, $1.5
billion of transformation savings, improving our adjusted operating margin from 38% to 52% to 54%, and returning at
least 60% of adjusted net income on average to shareholders.
Turning to page eight, 2016 will be an important year as we continue progress towards our long-term goals. Given the
number of moving pieces, including new product launches, currency movements, and U.S. biosimilar competition, as
well as the continued evolution of our transformation program, we wanted to provide a preliminary planning
framework for 2016. As you'll note, the framework is generally in line with expectations while individual components
may differ.
In 2016, revenue is expected to range from $21.7 billion to $22.3 billion. Adjusted earnings per share is expected to
range from $10.35 to $10.75 per share. Our adjusted tax rate is expected to range from 20.5% to 21.5%, and capital
expenditures will be approximately $700 million.
I want to take a moment to highlight several key assumptions embedded in our outlook for next year. First, our revenue
guidance range for 2016 includes continued momentum from our growth brands as well as a meaningful contribution
from our product launches. We also assume our legacy products face new biosimilar competition in the U.S., which
Tony will address in more detail.
Next, we expect an approximate one percentage point unfavorable impact to revenue and adjusted EPS growth, or
$0.12 per share, due to foreign exchange headwinds in 2016 versus 2015, assuming that current foreign exchange rates
prevail through the end of 2016. This represents an approximate four percentage point negative impact on our
international sales.
In terms of our transformation program, we expect continued progress in 2016, with an additional $400 million of
savings. These savings will be partially reinvested in the business and will also help drive a year-over-year reduction in
total adjusted operating expenses.
Finally, our 2016 adjusted tax rate guidance reflects an increase versus 2015 and excludes the benefit of the federal
R&D tax credit. This increase is primarily due to a change in the mix of earnings, as some of our newer products and
Enbrel have a higher tax rate than our legacy products. Also, U.S. R&D spend is decreasing due to transformation
program savings, which has a negative impact on the tax rate. We now expect the tax rate through 2018 to be in the low
20% range.
Company Name: Amgen
Company Ticker: AMGN US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 16
Regarding our capital allocation plan for 2016, we have continued to execute on the commitment to repurchase $2
billion of shares by year-end 2015. And as of now, we have deployed a total of $1.9 billion to repurchase shares. With
an increased Board of Directors authorization to $5 billion in total, we expect to repurchase an additional $2 billion to
$3 billion of shares by the end of 2016. On a cumulative basis, our repurchases will total $4 billion to $5 billion of
shares by the end of 2016 since a year ago.
We also plan to increase the dividend to $1.00 per share in the first quarter of 2016, reflecting another 27% increase
from current levels. With these actions, we are solidly on the path to meet our commitment to return 60% of adjusted
net income to shareholders on average for the period 2014 to 2018 while continuing to invest in the long-term growth
of the business.
In summary, we are pleased with our performance thus far in 2015, and we look forward to delivering results in the
remainder of this year as well as in 2016 and beyond.
I will now turn the call over to Tony.
Anthony C. Hooper
Thanks, David, and good afternoon, folks. You'll find a summary of our global sales performance for the third quarter
on slide number 10.
This was an exciting quarter for Amgen, as we launched Repatha and continued to deliver strong performance with our
growth products. Globally, product sales grew 14% year over year, and our U.S. business delivered 20% year-over-year
growth. Our international business grew 3% year over year excluding the negative impact of foreign exchange, with a
7% unit growth in Europe.
Let me start with an update on Repatha. The European approval of Repatha in July marked the first PCSK9 inhibitor
approval in the world. We are now also approved in the U.S. and Canada. Along with our Japanese partner, Astellas,
we expect Japanese approval in the first half of next year. We've designed Repatha's clinical program to demonstrate
that a simple single dose achieving maximal PCSK9 inhibition provides intensive and predictable cholesterol lowering.
This profile is resonating well with physicians.
In the U.S., the launch is off to a good start. We've built our sales force with experienced cardiovascular professionals,
and we established our presence in the field with our Corlanor launch in the first quarter this year. Upon approval, our
field force was trained and quickly in the field meeting with our prioritized Repatha customer targets.
Anticipating a period of negotiations with payers post-approval, we launched the RepathaReady program. This program
provides Repatha to appropriate patients, if they wish, during the insurance verification process while plans finalize
their formularies and fulfillment pathways. The response to our launch is extremely encouraging, as the volume of
requests to date is a clear indicator of the unmet need and physician belief in the benefits of Repatha.
With their recent formulary decision, Express Scripts recognized the value of Repatha, and we continue to negotiate
with other payers to expand access in the United States. However, we expect payers' utilization management criteria, or
UM, to remain fairly narrow pending the outcomes data. In the European Union, we continue to negotiate
reimbursement with individual countries. We already have patients on Repatha in Germany, in the UK, and some
Scandinavian countries.
The cardiovascular outcomes data and the intravascular ultrasound data in 2016 will continue to expand Repatha's
exciting profile. Repatha also has dosing frequency flexibility, either every two weeks or monthly, and we have
submitted our single injection monthly dosing option to regulators.
With the launch of Repatha, our continued progress with Corlanor, and the recently announced positive Phase 2 results
of omecamtiv mecarbil, we're building a strong foundation for Amgen's cardiovascular franchise.
Company Name: Amgen
Company Ticker: AMGN US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 16
Turning now to Kyprolis, where sales grew 46% year over year and 15% sequentially, the new indication for relapsed
or second-line multiple myeloma was launched in the U.S. in July. We're off to a good start and from our chart audits
have really seen a doubling of the KRd regimen, which is the regimen in ASPIRE in new-to-treatment second-line
patients. Every month there are about 1,000 new patients who require second-line treatment. We expect sales to grow
as we increase share in these new second-line patients and see a corresponding increase in the duration of Kyprolis
therapy.
We also received Priority Review for the submission of the ENDEAVOR data, which demonstrated a doubling of
progression-free survival compared to Velcade-treated patients. We expect this to drive additional momentum next year
and further strengthen Kyprolis as the best-in-class proteasome inhibitor. We anticipate further approval for Kyprolis
outside the U.S. by the year end, including Canada, Europe, and parts of South America and Asia.
Let me now turn to Enbrel. On slide 15 you'll see that Enbrel delivered 30% growth year over year, primarily driven by
net selling price. Just to clarify, net selling price includes the impact from list price changes as well as contracting and
access changes that have occurred over the past 12 months. Inventory growth was 11%, which was driven by a
favorable year-over-year comparison, as inventory levels were abnormally low in the third quarter 2014.
Segment growth remained strong in rheumatology and dermatology, growing 25% and 38%, respectively, year over
year on a value basis. Quarter on quarter, our rheumatology share was relatively stable at about 28%, while our share in
dermatology declined 2% to 24% due to intensifying competition from new therapies. I would remind you that
rheumatology accounts for about 80% of Enbrel sales.
Sensipar grew 29% year over year, driven by inventory, net selling price and unit growth in both the U.S. and Europe.
Similar to Enbrel, the inventory growth was driven by unusually low inventory levels in quarter three last year.
I'll now move to Prolia. Prolia followed its normal seasonal pattern, with a sequential decline in quarter three. But on a
year-over-year basis, it delivered 25% growth, with unit growth exceeding 20% in both the U.S. and Europe. Growth
was driven by continued share gains of about 3 percentage points in both the U.S. and Europe.
XGEVA grew 19% year over year. Unit share increased about 4 percentage points over the last year in the U.S. and
about 5 percentage points in Europe. There were, however, some abnormally large purchases by some end customers in
the U.S. this quarter, adding to the volume growth. We continue to focus on XGEVA's superior clinical profile versus
the competition.
Vectibix is showing flat volume, but this is solely due to the timing of shipments to our Japanese partner, Takeda, who
holds the license in Japan. The U.S. delivered year-over-year growth of 16% and Europe, 12%, both driven by the
expansion of Vectibix into earlier lines of therapy in metastatic colorectal cancer. Nplate continued to deliver solid
growth at 15% year over year, driven by 17% unit growth.
Now I'll turn to our mature brands, starting with the filgrastim franchise. Neulasta delivered year-over-year growth of
6%, driven by net selling price and inventory. Similar to XGEVA, we saw signs of abnormally high purchases by some
larger end customers in quarter three which we would expect to burn off in quarter four.
Meanwhile, the On-body Injector for Neulasta, which we've now branded as part of the Neulasta Onpro kit, continues
to gain adoption in the marketplace. Over 60% of our Neulasta accounts have now purchased the Onpro at least once,
and Onpro achieved 19% share of Neulasta units in quarter three.
NEUPOGEN declined 5% year over year, driven by branded short-acting competition in the U.S.
Sequentially quarter over quarter, we held share against branded competition and saw minimal impact from the new
biosimilar competition, given its launch late in the quarter. Using our seven years of biosimilar defense experience in
Europe, we will be competitive in the marketplace, but expect share erosion in the near term due to the new
competition.
Turning to our ESA products. EPOGEN declined 6% year over year, including a 15% unit decline, as dynamics
continue to evolve in the U.S. dialysis centers. That 15% unit decline would have been deeper if not for abnormally
Company Name: Amgen
Company Ticker: AMGN US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 16
high purchases by a large end customer in quarter three. Fresenius has now moved more than half its patients from
EPOGEN to Mircera, and we expect the trend to continue. Please recall that we have a contract with DaVita through
2018 in which they will purchase at least 90% of their ESAs from Amgen.
We're also seeing strong Aranesp adoption with medium sized and independent dialysis centers. Of the over 400,000
dialysis patients in the U.S., about 50,000 patients have now transitioned to Aranesp, including about 20,000 at
Fresenius. EPOGEN sales in future quarters will be impacted by utilization at Fresenius, potential switching to Aranesp
and potential biosimilar competition.
Aranesp sales increased 4% year over year, with a 32% growth in the U.S. driven by the shift in dialysis business from
EPOGEN to Aranesp that I was just talking about. International sales were impacted by foreign exchange rates. While
we continue to see a decline in oncology ESA use, we are pleased with the response to Aranesp in the U.S. dialysis
business.
We are making good progress with our launch of BLINCYTO. BLINCYTO is for rapid uptake in the most severe ALL
patients. And as the ALL patients cycle through different therapies, we will continue to grow patient penetration.
In summary, quarter three was an exciting quarter. Our Repatha and Kyprolis launches began in earnest and we
delivered strong results for our growth products and continued to defend our mature products in the marketplace. Please
keep in mind the additional inventory in the third quarter for Neulasta, EPOGEN, and XGEVA at some of our larger
end customers exceeds about $100 million and we expect this to reverse in quarter four.
Looking ahead to 2016, our growth products, including Enbrel, Prolia, XGEVA, Sensipar, Vectibix, and Nplate, are
expected to continue to deliver solid growth as sales for these products are growing in double digits this year and, in
some cases, in excess of 20% on a base of over $9 billion.
We also brought in momentum with our launch products, including Repatha and Kyprolis, and we expect they will
deliver more meaningfully to the top line in 2016. We will defend against increasing competition to our mature
franchises, with an assumption of no additional biosimilar competition before the second half of 2016.
Before I close, I'd like to thank our teams across the world who continue to work tirelessly, ensuring access for patients
to our innovative drugs.
Let me now pass it to Sean.
Sean E. Harper
Thanks, Tony. Good afternoon. Amgen's R&D efforts are rolling along nicely, with six major regulatory approvals of
innovative products for serious diseases over the last year. This is the core of what we do, invest in true innovation in
order to change the practice of medicine.
Today I'll begin with some comments on our cardiovascular programs. We recently submitted a supplemental BLA to
offer patients a single-dose option for the 420-milligram monthly dose of Repatha, utilizing an automated device as part
of our previously announced collaboration with West Pharmaceutical Services. And the FDA has communicated a July
2016 PDUFA date.
As we previously announced based on our current modeling of our event-driven cardiovascular outcomes study, we
anticipate the number of events required for final analysis to accrue by about the middle of 2016, with the top-line data
expected to follow in the second half of the year. We also anticipate the results of our coronary artery intravascular
ultrasound study in the second half of 2016. We believe that demonstrating a disease-modifying effect on
atherosclerotic plaque burden would be a compelling result, complementary to our outcomes data.
In addition, we were very pleased that our Phase 2 oral dosing study of AMG 423, or omecamtiv mecarbil, a myosin
activator we are developing with Cytokinetics in the setting of chronic heart failure, met all of its objectives. We've
already begun reviewing these data with our partners, key opinion leaders, and soon with regulators to better
Company Name: Amgen
Company Ticker: AMGN US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 16
understand the potential role of omecamtiv in the treatment of chronic heart failure patients.
Regarding our CETP inhibitor, we have flexibility to gate our R&D investment going forward after a careful review of
Lilly's CETP outcomes data when they become available.
Turning to oncology, following on the U.S. label expansion, Kyprolis has received a positive opinion by the EU CHMP
for the ASPIRE submission, and we will submit the ENDEAVOR file once the ASPIRE approval occurs. In the U.S.,
the ENDEAVOR file is under Priority Review, with an action date of January 2016.
Finally, our Phase 3 study of a weekly dosing regimen for Kyprolis in the relapsed refractory setting is actively
enrolling.
Turning to immuno-oncology and the realm of Bispecific T Cell Engagers [BiTE], we've received a positive opinion in
the EU from the CHMP for BLINCYTO in the setting of Philadelphia negative relapsed refractory acute lymphoblastic
leukemia. Our next molecule based on the BiTE Platform, AMG 330, directed at CD33, has entered testing in patients
with acute myeloid leukemia, an area of profound unmet medical need. The treatment paradigm for this disease, which
is approximately four times as common as adult ALL, has not changed meaningfully in 20 years, and the prognosis for
these patients remains bleak.
Finally, we're excited to have licensed in Xencor's bispecific antibody platform for six targets, including particularly an
anti-CD38 T Cell engaging molecule in the preclinical stage, given our focus in multiple myeloma.
As we announced yesterday, the FDA approved IMLYGIC for the local treatment of unresectable cutaneous,
subcutaneous, and nodal lesions in patients with melanoma recurrent after initial surgery. Despite the concept being
around for more than a century, IMLYGIC is the first oncolytic viral therapy to be approved and represents an
important new treatment option for melanoma patients. IMLYGIC also received a CHMP positive opinion for the
treatment of adults with unresectable metastatic melanoma in the EU.
While this initial indication is for a relatively small population in melanoma patients, we believe the real promise of
IMLYGIC is in the combination with other immune therapies. So we continue to advance the combination studies with
the anti-CTLA-4, anti-PD-1, and anti-PD-L1 antibodies that we've previously announced. The safety data from Phase
1b portion of the IMLYGIC KEYTRUDA combination melanoma study appeared quite favorable and were recently
presented at the European Cancer Congress. We look forward to seeing the efficacy data from this study and continue
to explore other possible combinations.
Leaving oncology, we've completed our U.S. and EU submissions for our novel intravenous calcimimetic,
etelcalcetide, or AMG 416, in patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism.
Turning to our bone franchise, we've recently seen two data sets for romosozumab, our anti-sclerostin monoclonal
antibody, in development with UCB for post-menopausal osteoporosis. First, we observed superiority to teriparatide in
an open-label Phase 3 study at the level of bone mineral density in patients heavily pre-treated with bisphosphonates.
Second, at the American Society of Bone and Mineral Research, we presented data from an exploratory sub-study of a
Phase 2 trial demonstrating superior calculated bone strength versus teriparatide in women with post-menopausal
osteoporosis. And of course, we look forward to seeing the first of our two fracture outcome studies in the first half of
next year. Recall this is a two-year study with patients receiving either romosozumab or placebo treatment in year one,
followed by Prolia treatment in year two.
Our migraine prophylaxis program with our CGRP receptor antagonist antibody, AMG 334, is actively enrolling two
Phase 3 episodic migraine studies. The enrollment rate suggests to me a very strong clinical need for an effective,
well-tolerated migraine prophylactic agent. Our Phase 2b study in the chronic migraine setting is enrolling nicely as
well, and we'll see those data next year. Behind AMG 334 in our migraine pipeline, our anti-PAC-1 receptor antibody,
AMG 301, is progressing through Phase 1. We're pleased about our partnership of this emerging franchise with
Novartis.
Of course, the other exciting aspect of our collaboration with Novartis is the BACE program for Alzheimer's disease. It
was scientists at Amgen who first cloned the BACE gene, and deCODE has provided compelling genetic validation for
Company Name: Amgen
Company Ticker: AMGN US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 16
this target. Here we're taking a differentiated approach based on the concept that it may prove difficult to demonstrate a
convincing disease modifying effect of BACE inhibition when intervening in patients who have clinically detectable
cognitive impairment. By studying cognitively normal patients genetically predisposed to late-onset Alzheimer's by
virtue of their APOE4 genotype, essentially intervening earlier in the disease course, we may be able to more
effectively demonstrate a disease modifying effect. This study is being conducted with the Banner Institute, which has
identified a large number of these patients. And this coupled with our human genetics platform provides a unique
opportunity to pursue this novel approach.
Finally, our biosimilar programs continue to advance. The team is preparing for submissions for a biosimilar HUMIRA
by year end, and our biosimilar Avastin Phase 3 study in non-small-cell lung cancer successfully completed. Our
biosimilar Herceptin study in breast cancer recently completed enrollment, and we expect to see the data sometime in
the second half of next year.
In closing, I'd like to thank the Amgen R&D team for their dedication to patients during this remarkably busy and
exciting time.
Bob?
Robert A. Bradway
Okay, thanks. Sean said this is an exciting time, and a lot is going on at the company. So let's open it up for questions
now, if we can ask our operator to remind everybody of the procedure.
Q&A
Operator
[Operator Instructions] And now our first question comes from the line of Matt Roden from UBS.
<Q - Matthew Roden>: Great, thanks very much for taking the questions. Congrats on a very nice quarter. I guess,
David, when I'm looking at your new preliminary 2016 guidance, we're seeing it falls just a touch below consensus. I
just wanted to get your sense for whether or not we should be looking at the revenue side or the margin side or tax side.
What is it that you think the Street is missing? And if it is the revenues, is it related to biosimilar competition or lower
than the Street expectations on PCSK9? I'm just trying to get a sense for where you think we're off.
<A - David W. Meline>: I would say the one place that jumps out is if you look at the tax rate, which is up year over
year more than actually we've previously indicated the rate would go to, it's probably the biggest area where we see
some differences, which is frankly part of the reason why I thought it would be helpful to give you a preliminary view
of what we think is going on in 2016. I think the good news in that regard is while we're generally in line with
consensus overall, it would imply I think that we've got somewhat better operating performance we see for the business
next year than perhaps the analysts have in their models right now.
<A - Robert A. Bradway>: David, do you want to reiterate your R&D tax credit point as well, just to make sure that
Matt and others are...
<A - David W. Meline>: Yes, and so the rate that we've got out there for next year, as is the case with this year, again,
we've chosen to exclude the R&D tax rate from that calculation – the R&D tax credit because of the ongoing
uncertainty of that eventually being passed and impacting favorably on the rate.
<A - Robert A. Bradway>: Okay, let's go to the next question.
Operator
Company Name: Amgen
Company Ticker: AMGN US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 16
Our next question comes from the line of Terence Flynn from Goldman Sachs.
<Q - Terence C. Flynn>: Hi, thanks for taking the question and congrats on all the progress, maybe just two quick
ones for me. First on the Repatha launch, can you give us the sales number for the quarter, and then any comments on
the breadth of prescribing you're seeing and the types of patients?
And then on the pipeline, Sean, you mentioned omecamtiv. What are the key outstanding questions there and just
timing of the next steps for that program? Thank you.
<A - Robert A. Bradway>: Tony?
<A - Anthony C. Hooper>: Terence, it's Tony, so let me respond. Obviously, we launched in September, so it was not
much of a quarter. So I think you'll probably see a better reflection of sales in the fourth quarter once we finish all our
negotiations. The utilization criteria that the payers are putting into place are pretty much in line with the label at the
moment. So high-risk patients with diagnosed athro disease who have LDL above 130 mg/dL, that's where we're seeing
the patients.
<A - Robert A. Bradway>: Tony, do you want to talk about the European piece of the launch as well?
<A - Anthony C. Hooper>: Sure. So we have launched in Europe, as you know. And we do have patients at the
moment in the UK, some Scandinavian countries, and Germany.
<A - Sean E. Harper>: Great. And with respect to omecamtiv mecarbil, what I would say is that we're in the usual
stage of having just seen these data. We have partners to review the data with. We're working with really the top key
experts in heart failure from around the world and have been for years on the program.
So we have to review the data with them and, of course, talk with the regulators through the usual end of Phase 2
meetings before we can reach a formal decision about whether to proceed and in what exactly format in terms of study
designs and that sort of thing. So it's all the usual steps that we have to go through for a very significant decision to
advance into an outcomes trial in a setting like congestive heart failure. But we are very pleased with the data that we
generated from the study.
Operator
And now our next question comes from the line of Michael Yee from RBC Capital Markets.
<Q - Michael J. Yee>: Hi, thanks. Good afternoon. I wanted to ask a little bit more on the guidance. I guess just
broadly speaking, can you be more clear on what actually spurred you to talk about 2016 already? And in terms of the
biosimilar assumptions there, is it safe to say, to be more specific, you don't expect a G-CSF – or excuse me, a
long-acting G-CSF any time before at least second half of 2016? And with that, do you therefore expect to assume high
penetration of the On-body device? Where do you think that can go to in terms of penetration? Thanks.
<A - David W. Meline>: So, Michael, in terms of why we decided to provide a preliminary framework today, it's
really as we looked at it, as we look into 2016, what we observe is there's a lot of dynamics going on. And as I
mentioned, we've got a number of new products that we see launching. As you know, we're now approved for the sixth
one as we had hoped, so what's going on with that, what's going on with the competitive environment in terms of our
legacy portfolio, obviously foreign exchange, and then our own efforts to improve the competitiveness of the business.
So my feeling was that it would be useful to you guys in that at the end of October you're starting to look more
specifically at 2016.
So I thought it would be useful to provide that initial indication today. And as I said earlier, the expectations are
generally in line with what we said today, but there are some differences. So we just thought it would be helpful to you
guys to get something out there.
So maybe Tony wants to comment on the other piece
Company Name: Amgen
Company Ticker: AMGN US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 16
<A - Anthony C. Hooper>: Sure. Let me just add that as we look at the assumptions in place for our 2016 numbers,
we don't assume any new additional biosimilars until the second half of 2016. As regard the On-body Injector for
Neulasta, we continue to be very excited about the launch and the uptake in the marketplace.
As I said, just over 60% of our customers are accounts that actually purchased at least once. And the average market
share was about 19% in the third quarter and that market share keeps growing.
<A - Arvind K. Sood>: Brian, let's take the next question.
Operator
And our next question comes from the line of Eric Schmidt from Cowen & Company.
<Q - Eric Thomas Schmidt>: As well maybe for Tony or even Bob, just curious on the U.S. pricing environment,
whether you think there's been any real or perceived changes in that outlook.
<A - Robert A. Bradway>: Eric, obviously that's a topical question. I guess the important thing from our perspective
is to reflect on what our business model is, which is to develop innovative medicines directed against serious diseases.
And we try to advance medicines that have a big effect for patients and, with that, big effects for society.
So if you look at the six medicines we're launching, that's exactly what the medicines represent, and we think medicines
that had a big effect size for patients, medicines that create value. And so we've anticipated this moment in the
development work that we've been doing, anticipated it in our strategy and in the molecules that we've chosen to
advance.
So, again, it doesn't come as a surprise to us that there are questions about the value of the medicines and the price. And
we think the more we can do to help focus on the economic burden of diseases like cardiovascular disease, cancer,
neurodegenerative disease and the significant prospect or opportunity that our medicines represent against those, the
more appropriate framing for the discussion.
So I wouldn't say there's anything particularly precipitous changing for those of us that are at the innovative
biopharmaceutical end, other than the fact that we're in an incredibly exciting window of time here with lots of
important new innovative medicines against, again, some of the most vexing tough diseases that we all face.
Operator
And our next question comes from the line of Matthew Harrison from Morgan Stanley.
<Q - Vikram P. Ashoka>: Hi. This is Vikram on for Matthew. So just two quick questions from our side. So first can
you talk about the sustainability of price increases that you saw with Enbrel and EPOGEN? Especially with EPOGEN,
if you could touch on the share losses to Fresenius, that would be helpful.
And then secondly, you touched on this a little earlier during the call. But if you could quantify the impact of end user
purchasing patterns on Neulasta, that would also be very helpful.
<A - Robert A. Bradway>: I think there are three questions there. So, Tony, do you want to try and tackle EPOGEN?
<A - Anthony C. Hooper>: So just to Bob's point again, so the price increases we've taken in the marketplace are
based on the value our products bring to market and the competitive environment in which they operate.
In the EPOGEN situation, Fresenius represents about one-third of the marketplace in the U.S. and they are in the
process of converting a large amount of their business to Mircera. I think they will probably be announcing within the
next couple of days how much of their business they have converted.
I didn't get the question on Neulasta, sorry.
Company Name: Amgen
Company Ticker: AMGN US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 16
<A - Robert A. Bradway>: Repeat the third question you had there.
<A - Arvind K. Sood>: End user purchasing patterns on Neulasta.
<A - Anthony C. Hooper>: So what was the question about end user? Sorry.
<A - Arvind K. Sood>: Just how much end user inventory did we have on Neulasta specifically.
<A - Anthony C. Hooper>: Okay. So net, as I said, the end-user purchases for Neulasta, XGEVA, and EPOGEN were
just in excess of $100 million in the third quarter. And we expect that to burn off in the fourth quarter.
<A - Arvind K. Sood>: Okay, Brian, let's take the next one.
Operator
Okay. And our next question comes from the line of Mark Schoenebaum from Evercore ISI.
<Q - Mark Schoenebaum>: Hey, guys. Thanks for taking the question. Congrats on a great headline print. I had a
couple questions. Number one, Fresenius has taken much more share, as has been mentioned in other questions. I'm
wondering why. Is it simply that you will not match price? Because I think last quarter you mentioned something about
how – and when do such contract negotiations happen? It sounds like you're guiding us to give up on Fresenius, and I
want to know is that because Mircera is offering a price that Amgen just doesn't think it's economical to match?
My second question was on biosimilar HUMIRA. Is it still your expectation, Bob, that you're going to launch in 2017?
Because Rick Gonzalez at AbbVie, your counterpart, absolutely insists, like table-pounding, heavy breathing, that
there's no way that's going to happen before 2019 or so. So I'd just like to get your updated thoughts on that.
And then finally, can you give us any indication whatsoever, any, about what our expectation should be for gross-to-net
discounting for the PCSK9 class, either right now early days or at a more steady-state level? Because that's what we
need obviously in our models. Thank you.
<A - Robert A. Bradway>: Okay, let's see whether we can tackle those. I think there were three questions there, Tony.
The first one is about Fresenius. Do you want to respond to Mark's question?
<A - Anthony C. Hooper>: So we have no idea what the agreement is between Fresenius and Roche, who supplies
Mircera to them. And our pricing decisions are clearly made not just on our contract with Fresenius, but the overall
dialysis market in the U.S. And so we are balancing existing customers and customers who are possibly changing their
portfolio.
<A - Robert A. Bradway>: And gross-to-net, Tony, do you want to...
<A - Anthony C. Hooper>: On gross-to-net, we don't make public any of the contract negotiations we have with
payers.
<A - Robert A. Bradway>: Obviously, negotiations continue to be underway here in the U.S. and internationally.
And with respect to HUMIRA, Mark, we are excited about, confident in the clinical data that we have. And as you
would expect, we're preparing to file those data with regulators. We recognize that there is intellectual property here
that needs to be respected. But we will continue to advance our molecule and continue to assess the intellectual
property that's in place. And if we have a dispute, the good news is there's a process for resolving that dispute. And,
again, we'll push forward on that basis.
<A - Arvind K. Sood>: Okay, Brian, let's take the next one.
Operator
Company Name: Amgen
Company Ticker: AMGN US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 16
And our next question comes from the line of Cory Kasimov from JPMorgan.
<Q - Cory W. Kasimov>: Hey. Good afternoon, guys. Thanks for taking the questions. I wanted to follow up on the
2016 guidance questions and ask if you can at least qualitatively speak to your comfort level with the Street's Repatha
expectations for next year. And then also on the PCSK9 front, should we expect the deal with Express Scripts to set a
precedent for comparable agreements with other payers going forward? Thanks a lot.
<A - Robert A. Bradway>: Again, two questions there, Cory. With respect to guidance for 2016, we're not giving
individual product line revenue guidance. Again, I think David addressed pretty comprehensively what our thinking
was in general about the P&L for 2016. We hope it's helpful for you to have it at this stage in the game. And with
respect to what you expect from other payers, again, Tony, do you care to comment on that?
<A - Anthony C. Hooper>: We were delighted that Express Scripts left the option of which drug to use to physicians
and patients, and we continue to believe Error! Not a valid link. that's the best place to be in the marketplace. That's our
position as we go out to the markets, but we're in the middle of negotiations, so we don't know where we're going to
land.
<Q - Cory W. Kasimov>: Okay, understood. Thank you.
Operator
And our next question comes from the line of Ying Huang with Bank of America.
<Q - Ying Huang>: Thank you for taking my questions as well. Specifically, I have one for Enbrel. When you provide
2016 guidance, what's your assumption for the pricing trend? I know you can't spell out the details. But can we expect
somewhat similar level of pricing for 2016?
And then on EPO in the market for dialysis, obviously we know what happened with Fresenius. But what's your
expectations for the other one-third independent dialysis centers on the market? And then I guess lastly, given the
recent biotech correction in the market, what's your thought of M&A in terms of being optimistic here? Thanks.
<A - Anthony C. Hooper>: Let me answer the question around the independent dialysis units. Right now they receive
their supply from us. We are delighted to see the level of switching that's taking place from EPOGEN to Aranesp
amongst both the independents – or both the medium and small dialysis centers, so we'll continue to work with them as
we go forward.
On Enbrel, the net price always depends on a combination of price increases on list versus large amounts of
contracting. Enbrel competes in a highly competitive environment where payers make decisions around where products
are on their formularies in terms of a preferred tier or a non-preferred tier based on the rebates. And when you're on a
preferred tier, you pay a rebate. If you're not on a preferred tier, you don't pay a rebate. So there's a huge amount of
dramatic changes inside hundreds of different plans.
<A - Robert A. Bradway>: Okay. And on the M&A question, Ying, as we said a year ago, that we would focus on
early-stage transactions. And if you look at the activity that we engaged in over the past 12 months, you can see we
brought in a lot of earlier-stage innovative new product and technology opportunities. And we've said more recently
that we're opening the aperture a little bit and beginning to look at a broader range of things, including potentially some
larger things. We think obviously that the valuations in the sector are probably more favorable now for the later-stage
assets than they were a year ago. And so we're continuing to look, and I think it may be some time, however, before the
owners of those late-stage assets adjust their pricing expectations to reflect the current trading environment. But we're
continuing to look, but nothing to report on the call.
Operator
And our next question...
Company Name: Amgen
Company Ticker: AMGN US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 16
<A - Arvind K. Sood>: Go ahead.
Operator
Yes, and our next question comes from Eun Yang from Jefferies.
<Q - Eun K. Yang>: Thanks for the question, a question on Kyprolis. I understand that Kyprolis has a greater PFS
[Progression-Free Survival] improvement versus elotuzumab, but some physicians comment that the mix of different
degrees of the relapsed patient population makes it difficult to compare clinical study data. So now with elotuzumab
entering the market early next year, can you share with us what you are hearing as to how physicians would utilize
Kyprolis versus elotuzumab in the relapsed setting?
<A - Sean E. Harper>: It is I think just very early days in my view to assess that. And I think in general the theme that
I continue to hear when I talk to experts in this area is the concept that they don't view molecules like elotuzumab as
things that are likely to displace a proteasome inhibitor from the backbone therapy in multiple myeloma, but rather
looking at them as adjunct therapies. So our strategy is to be the preferred best-in-class proteasome inhibitor and to
have adequate combination data of course with a lot of these new molecules as they come along to make sure that we
are a part of the best-in-class regimens for the disease.
<A - Anthony C. Hooper>: I think just to add to that, Sean, I think what we demonstrated in the ASPIRE study was
unprecedented in terms of PFS in the second-line relapsed setting. And the data that was presented on elotuzumab, the
so-called ELOQUENT study, again, difficult to make cross-drug comparisons, but it certainly was not comparable to
what we saw.
<A - Sean E. Harper>: No, certainly not. I think though the question presumed that you can't make the comparison as
well across the studies. And of course, we all recognize that there are limitations to making cross-study comparisons.
<A - Anthony C. Hooper>: I'd just remind everyone that the product is not approved in the U.S. yet, so I think we
should wait until the FDA makes a decision and we can see a label.
<A - Robert A. Bradway>: Okay, let's go to next question.
<A - Arvind K. Sood>: Brian, let's take the next one.
Operator
Yes, and our next question comes from the line of Geoff Meacham from Barclays Capital.
<Q - Geoffrey Meacham>: Guys, thanks for taking the question. One, Repatha, obviously the tipping point in
utilization is going to come from the outcomes data, but that speaks I think to the sickest patients getting access today.
And so I know it's early, but any common features so far in new starts beyond LDL, things like prior statin experience
or cardiac events? And then would you expect this to differ in the EU, looking out say six to 12 months? Thanks.
<A - Robert A. Bradway>: Okay, Geoff. Thanks for your question. Tony, why don't you handle Geoff's question?
<A - Anthony C. Hooper>: So, Geoff, let me just reiterate. Having launched a number of cardiovascular drugs in my
life, this one feels pretty good. The level of discussion we're getting amongst cardiologists and high-prescribing
primary care physicians is more than what I would have expected. They really understand the value of lowering LDL
and understand what the statins have delivered in terms of the outcomes data. So in my mind, the understanding is
there, the demand is there, and the need is there.
The slow march that we are taking with payers in the U.S. of course is reducing the opportunity for patients to get
access to these drugs early. We're delighted with Express Scripts having made this decision, and we work actively with
the other guys to get product up and running. The utilization criteria at the moment they've set in place is fairly tight to
Company Name: Amgen
Company Ticker: AMGN US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 16
ensure that patients step through a number of situations. But I continue to believe that what we are seeing in terms of
patients being referred to the hub for insurance verification, I feel pretty confident about that. In Europe, of course, the
label is slightly broader, but we do take longer to negotiate with the various countries, country-by-country in Europe.
<A - Arvind K. Sood>: Hey, Brian, as we are on the top of the hour, why don't we take two more questions?
Operator
Let's see, and we do have a question from the line of Brian Skorney from Baird.
<Q - Colleen Hanley>: Hi, this is Colleen on the line for Brian. Thanks for taking the question. I know it's still early in
the launch, but can you comment on how many patients have started on Repatha? And can you also comment on the
regulatory pathway for oral LDL lowering drugs like CETP inhibitors or other mechanism for statin lowering and the
need for cardiovascular outcomes studies versus the more accelerated path you were able to take with Repatha? Thank
you.
<A - Anthony C. Hooper>: This is Tony. The IMS data has not been very clear in terms of actual prescriptions up
until about a week or two ago. So I would imagine the data that's starting to come in now is accurately representing the
number of patients receiving a prescription from a pharmacy. This of course doesn't take into account the patients that
are moving through the hubs, either run by ourselves or by our competitors, assisting patients during the verification
process as plans go through their formulary and guideline of pathway process to decide how and when to allow the
usage of these PCSK9s.
<A - Sean E. Harper>: With respect to the regulatory environment for other mechanisms such as CETP inhibition, I
think what I would say we're going to observe is what we saw with the PCSK9 class, which is regulators really taking
into account in their determinations around what evidence base would be necessary to gain market access and what
kind of population should be included in initial labeling prior to outcomes studies. That's going be predicated very
much on the mechanism. And I think in the case of PCSK9, there was a certain value placed on the science that
underlies that mechanism. And in fact, thus far we've not had a situation, for example, where the mechanism had been
tested and failed in large outcomes trials.
So I it's going be a case-by-case determination by regulators based on the mechanism and the evidence base that exists
and whether or not there's safety overlie and that sort of thing. So it's not a simple question to answer I think, but I think
that the parameters that will be weighed are fairly clear.
Operator
And we have a question from the line of Chris Raymond from Raymond James.
<Q - Christopher J. Raymond>: Question on Enbrel. So I'm looking at the math on slide 15, and it seems to make
some sense. It seems to make sense with respect to price making up the difference when you factor in inventory and
units. I just want to clarify. Do you see – is it also possible that a quarterly driver could be changes in rebates and
discounts? Is that a measurable impact at all quarter on quarter, especially this quarter?
<A - Anthony C. Hooper>: So normally your contracts are for annual pay rate, but by definition any change in a
contract will then impact your year-over-year calculation for four quarters in a row. So clearly, there are contract
changes that impact the net selling price in quarter three, yes.
<Q - Christopher J. Raymond>: Okay, thank you.
Arvind K. Sood
Company Name: Amgen
Company Ticker: AMGN US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 16 of 16
Okay, great. Thanks, everybody, for participating in our call, and myself and my team will stick around for a while. So
if you guys have any other questions to ask, feel free to give us a call. Have a good day.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Amgen's third quarter financial results conference call. You may now disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.