Company Name: McDonald's
Company Ticker: MCD US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 14
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Chris Stent
• Stephen J. Easterbrook
• Kevin M. Ozan
Other Participants
• Joseph Terrence Buckley
• Andrew Marc Barish
• David S. Palmer
• Matthew James DiFrisco
• Jake Bartlett
• Sara H. Senatore
• Karen Holthouse
• Nicole Miller Regan
• Brian J. Bittner
• Karen F. Short
• Keith R. Siegner
• David E. Tarantino
• John Glass
• Jeff D. Farmer
• Howard W. Penney
• Andrew Charles
• Jeffrey Andrew Bernstein
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Hello and welcome to McDonald's October 22, 2015, Investors Conference Call. At the request of McDonald's
Corporation, this conference is being recorded. Following today's presentation, there will be a question-and-answer
session for investors. [Operator Instructions]
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Chris Stent, Vice President of Investor Relations for McDonald's
Corporation. Mr. Stent, you may begin.
Chris Stent
Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us. With me on the call are President and Chief Executive Officer, Steve
Easterbrook; and Chief Financial Officer, Kevin Ozan. Today's conference call is being webcast live and recorded for
replay by webcast.
Before I turn it over to Steve, I want to remind everyone that the forward-looking statements in our earnings release
and 8-K filing also apply to our comments. Both documents are available on www.investor.mcdonalds.com as are
Company Name: McDonald's
Company Ticker: MCD US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 14
reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today's call with their corresponding GAAP
measures.
Last month, we provided unaudited summary financial information and historical segment data consistent with the
company's new structure. The updated annual information was provided for 2010 through 2014. Quarterly details were
also provided for 2014 through June, 2015. Specific questions related to this summary financial information and
historical segment data will be addressed by the Investor Relations team through a Frequently Asked Questions
document that will be distributed on October 30. Given the very limited number of questions received, we are no longer
planning to host a separate conference call to discuss this information.
And now, I'd like to turn it over to Steve.
Stephen J. Easterbrook
Thank you, Chris. Good morning, everyone. It's been eight months since I stepped into the position of CEO. Since then,
we've made meaningful progress to fuel our turnaround and begin repositioning McDonald's as a modern, progressive
burger company. Our turnaround is operationally led. It's grounded in running great restaurants, which is the first step
to enhancing the customer experience. People have more choices than ever about where to dine. We want to give them
more reasons to dine at McDonald's by recommitting to hot fresh food, fast, friendly service, and contemporary
restaurant experience, all at the value of McDonald's.
Our number one priority is to return critical markets to sustainable revenue and income growth. To do so, we must be
customer-centric in our planning and our decision-making. We must have the best talent in the most critical positions.
And our system must be aligned around the actions we're taking to consistently run great restaurants. And we must
execute initiatives that ultimately enhance our appeal in the areas that matter most to consumers through great tasting,
high quality food, convenience, and value.
Whilst we're still in the early phases, our turnaround plan is working. Customers are beginning to respond to the actions
we're taking, and this progress is reflected in our third quarter results.
As we've discussed previously, the U.S. and International Lead Markets segments generate over 80% of global
operating income. For third quarter, five of our six most significant markets drove positive comparable sales growth,
with France's comparable sales being marginally negative. We also grew consolidated margins, operating income and
earnings per share on a constant currency basis.
These results do, in part, reflect the benefits from comparisons to the 2014 China supplier issue and the prior year's
increase in tax reserves; however, operating results for the quarter were still up modestly when you exclude these items
and take into consideration the significant currency headwinds.
Looking ahead as we begin fourth quarter, global comparable sales are expected to be positive in all segments. Every
market plays a significant role in our global turnaround. Some markets, like Canada, Australia and the U.K., are further
along. They continue to deliver strong sustained growth.
That said, all markets have adjusted how they think and how they operate to ensure their actions and decisions are
grounded in satisfying customers in their local markets today and for the long-term. The U.S. business remains front
and center, given its fundamental importance to overall consolidated results. Its shift to positive comparable sales in the
third quarter, the first quarterly comparable sales increase in the U.S. in two years, is a tangible sign of progress and
reflects the initial steps we've taken in areas that matter most to our customers: great tasting, high quality food;
convenience; and value.
In the area of food, we've made progress toward enhancing the taste of our products and improving consumer
perceptions of quality. Our core classics define the McDonald's brand. That's why we've enhanced operational
procedures. We're toasting buns longer, changing how we sear and grill burger patties to bring out the best in our menu
and serve hotter, juicier sandwiches to our customers.
Company Name: McDonald's
Company Ticker: MCD US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 14
We transitioned back to the original recipe for our Egg McMuffin, using butter instead of margarine, to deliver an even
tastier sandwich. Customers appreciated the change and we saw a double-digit increase in the number of Egg
McMuffins sold immediately following the rollout.
In August, we introduced the Buttermilk Chicken sandwich, made with 100% chicken breast meat and real buttermilk.
This new product complements our ongoing core menu emphasis, and customers have responded favorably. Initial
results have exceeded the high end of our expectations.
And at the start of the fourth quarter, we rolled out All Day Breakfast across the U.S. Customers have been asking for
this for years. And we challenged ourselves to move past legacy barriers to deliver, and we did. Our ability to move
from one market in May to all 14,000 restaurants speaks to the commitment and alignment of franchisees and our entire
system of being customer-led in our decisions and our actions.
We've also taken action to enhance our convenience and the overall customer experience. Early this year, we
implemented operational procedures designed to improve order accuracy, removed some items from the menu, and
simplified the drive-thru menu boards. Our goal is net simplification. We've established screens to evaluate operational
complexity versus the expected impacts on the customer and the business. And ultimately, we want to focus our efforts
on fewer, bigger decisions that generate bigger rewards.
We also took a first step toward enhancing the customer experience digitally with the deployment of the mobile
application. To-date, there have been over 2 million downloads of the app and 1.5 million offers redeemed. We'll begin
national advertising later this month.
And from a value standpoint, we're aligning with franchisees on the need for national value. The summer $2.50 Double
Cheeseburger and small fry promotion was a first step. And we've remained committed with operators in working
towards restoring a more permanent national value platform in the future.
Customers are noticing the differences. Our customer feedback system, which now tracks approximately 10 million
customer touch-points each year, reflects consistent improvement in customer feedback scores. We're seeing this across
all key categories measured, with the most significant improvements seen in the areas we focused on, namely: food
quality; friendly and fast service; and order accuracy.
Let's now turn to the International Lead Markets segment, starting with Australia. Third quarter marks four consecutive
quarters of comparable sales and guest counts in Australia. The market turnaround began last year as customers
responded to the combined initiatives that collectively improved their overall experience. This included a renewed
focus on improving operations, the added convenience of offering barista-crafted McCafé beverages through the
drive-thru and a stronger value platform with the relaunch of the Loose Change Menu.
This year, we've given customers even more reasons to visit our restaurants with the rollout of a new Value Menu at
breakfast and through effective marketing and promotional efforts, including Monopoly. National advertising of the
Experience of the Future, which includes self-order kiosks, digital menu boards, table service, and burger
customization through Create Your Taste, began July 1. While early, we're encouraged with the initial results and the
positive buzz we've created in the market. And we're fueling that energy as we add chicken and salad offerings to the
Create Your Taste platform later this month.
Let's now turn to Germany, a market showing early signs of a turnaround. Customers are responding to the steps we've
taken to enhance the appeal of premium products by emphasizing the provenance and sustainability of ingredients. The
new Clubhouse Veggie sandwich in August, along with a re-hit of a proven customer favorite, [ph] Grilled Küchefree
(9:54), contributed to positive comparable sales in the third quarter. And this month's launch of the McB, a premium
burger that's made with 100% organic beef from farms in Germany and Austria, reinforces food quality messages to
our customers.
In France, we continue to maintain share, despite the challenging macro environment and an informal eating out market
experiencing its fourth consecutive year of decline. Customers appreciate the actions we've taken to strengthen value at
every price tier. This includes introducing McFirst earlier this year, a three-item meal combination for under €5, and
Company Name: McDonald's
Company Ticker: MCD US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 14
extending Petit Plaisir across more product categories and dayparts.
In addition, strong marketing campaigns, including Le Grand Premium and the American Summer food events have
successfully driven premium sandwich sales. They're also elevating the service experience by providing customers with
new ways to order and be served in our restaurants. Self-order kiosks are now in more than 90% of French restaurants,
and we're now offering table service in more than half.
Our strong performance continues in the U.K. and Canada. These two markets' ability to sustain prolonged growth is a
direct result of their robust planning process, which directly links actions to specific consumer needs. Strong quality
campaigns in both markets are boosting customer perceptions of core classics and successful promotions and new menu
news, like the Chicken Legend in the UK and the new Mighty Angus in Canada, have driven growth in premium
products.
Since Russia and China are two high growth markets of particular interest, let's spend a moment on them. Both markets
posted positive comparable sales for the quarter, as they recover from last year's well-documented issues. The team's
execution against strong recovery plans with a comprehensive focus around great tasting, high quality food,
convenience and value have successfully restored brand trust scores in both markets; however, we face near-term
headwinds, given an economic slowdown in China and continued volatility in Russia.
In addition to the operational elements of the turnaround plan each market is executing around the globe, we continue a
regular cadence of meaningful moves consistent with a leadership brand. We believe these moves will ultimately
improve consumer perceptions of our brands. In September, we announced our plans in the U.S. to transition to
cage-free eggs over the next 10 years. More recently, we collaborated with a number of global brand leaders to raise
awareness for the plight of refugees and the need to support the United Nations World Food Programme. And earlier
this week, we announced our participation in the White House Climate Pledge.
Turning around our business requires a relentless focus on what consumers want and expect from McDonald's. Our
responsibility is to give them reasons to feel good about visiting, time and again. Our opportunity is to differentiate
McDonald's by delivering what consumers want today, while laying the foundation for what they'll expect tomorrow.
And our commitment is to deliver on both.
I am pleased with the progress we've made and remain confident in the ability of our talented system of franchisees,
employees and suppliers to revitalize our connection with customers as we execute our turnaround plan into 2016.
Thank you. And I'll now hand it over to Kevin.
Kevin M. Ozan
Thanks, Steve, and hello, everyone. Today's earnings release marks our first quarterly reporting under the new segment
structure, so I want to spend a few minutes outlining the new segments as a lead-in to my discussion of the factors that
impacted the company's third quarter performance.
Effective July 1, we completed an important first step in the company's global turnaround plan, the reorganization of
our business from a geographically-focused structure to segments that combine markets with similar characteristics and
opportunities for growth. Our reporting segments now include: the U.S., our largest individual market, accounting for
over 40% of consolidated operating income; the International Lead segment, which includes our established markets of
Australia, Canada, France, Germany and the UK, that collectively account for about 40% of the company's operating
income; the High Growth segment, which includes markets with relatively higher restaurant expansion and franchising
potential, including China, Italy, Poland, Russia, South Korea, Spain, Switzerland and the Netherlands. Together, these
markets account for about 10% of the company's operating income. And the Foundational & Corporate segment, that
encompasses the remaining markets, each of which has the potential to operate under a largely franchised model. These
markets are combined with corporate activities for reporting purposes.
Company Name: McDonald's
Company Ticker: MCD US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 14
From a business operations standpoint, this new structure brings similar markets together to leverage their collective
insights and expertise to deliver a better overall experience for our customers. From a reporting standpoint, the new
structure provides greater visibility into the key markets driving the vast majority of the company's underlying financial
performance.
So let's take a look at the major drivers of our third quarter results. Earnings per share for the quarter increased $0.31 to
$1.40. In constant currencies, third quarter earnings per share increased $0.48. These results benefited from the
comparison against prior year results, which included an increase in our tax reserves and the China supplier issue.
These items negatively impacted third quarter 2014 earnings per share by $0.41. Excluding the impact of the unusual
prior year items, third quarter earnings per share would have increased $0.07, or 5% in constant currencies.
Looking beyond the unusual prior year items, third quarter global comparable sales were up 4%, reflecting positive
comparable sales across all segments and positive guest counts in all segments except the U.S. The International Lead
Markets segment was the largest contributor to the company's third quarter comparable sales performance, posting an
increase of 4.6%, led by strong comparable sales and guest counts in Australia, the U.K. and Canada. Germany's results
were uneven, but encouraging, as the market posted positive comparable sales for the second consecutive quarter. And
in France, comparable sales were marginally negative as the market's macroeconomic environment and informal eating
out industry remain challenged.
The High Growth markets generated strong comparable sales of 8.9% for the quarter, reflecting sales recovery in both
China and Russia. For perspective, China's comparable sales were up 26.8% for the quarter. The U.S. reported a
comparable sales increase of 0.9% for the quarter, supported by the introduction of the new Buttermilk Crispy Chicken
sandwich and a return to the classic recipe for our Egg McMuffin. Comparable sales performance improved toward the
latter part of the quarter.
With more than 80% of our global restaurants franchised, the largest driver of operating income continues to be our
franchise margins, which totaled $1.9 billion, a 7% increase in constant currencies for the quarter. The franchise margin
percent increased 20 basis points to 82.2%, driven by the positive comparable sales generated by the international
segments. Global company-operated margin dollars increased 9% in constant currencies to $675 million for the quarter,
while the company-operated margin percent increased 10 basis points to 15.8%.
China's sales recovery accounted for the majority of the margin improvement for the quarter, partly offset by ongoing
labor costs in the U.S. The incremental labor cost in the U.S. related primarily to our decision to invest in our people by
raising wages and providing paid time off for employees at our company-operated restaurants, as well as providing
educational assistance to all eligible U.S. restaurant employees effective July 1. These costs, along with wage increases
mandated by several states during the first half of the year, impacted third quarter U.S. margins by about 400 basis
points.
For the quarter, U.S. commodity costs rose about 1%, primarily due to higher beef prices. Our U.S. third quarter pricing
year-over-year was up about 2%, which remains below food away from home inflation of around 3%. The current
projected increase in food away from home inflation for the full year remains at 2% to 3%. Commodity costs for the
International Lead Markets segment were up about 0.5% in the quarter. While price increases vary by market,
year-over-year increases for these markets averaged 1% to 2%.
Moving down the P&L, G&A for the third quarter ended at $584 million, up 9% in constant currencies due entirely to
higher incentive-based compensation accruals versus the prior year. Despite this unfavorable quarterly comparison, we
are making progress against our previously-announced savings target.
Looking beyond the third quarter, currency translation is expected to be a headwind for the final quarter of 2015, as the
U.S. dollar remains strong against nearly all of the world's other major currencies. Based on current exchange rates, we
expect currency translation to negatively impact fourth quarter earnings per share by $0.08 to $0.10. As usual, take this
as directional guidance only because rates will change as we move throughout the quarter.
Before I conclude my remarks, I want to make a comment about our financial outlook for the full year 2015. As you
know, each quarter, we typically provide details around our expectations for several key components influencing our
Company Name: McDonald's
Company Ticker: MCD US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 14
financial results in an Outlook section. In light of our upcoming November investor meeting, we did not provide an
update on our financial outlook in either today's prepared remarks or as part of today's 8-K filing. An update on these
components will be provided in conjunction with our investor meeting in a few weeks.
In closing, the transition in both our operating and reporting structure represents a new era for McDonald's, as we move
toward becoming a more focused and efficient organization. While we are less than six months into executing our
turnaround plan, our third quarter results demonstrate early signs of progress with both our top and bottom-line results.
We are encouraged by this progress, but recognize that there is much more work to be done. As we begin fourth
quarter, we are energized by the challenges in front of us.
Thanks. And now, I'll turn it over to Chris to begin our Q&A.
Q&A
<A - Chris Stent>: Thanks, Kevin. We will now open the call for analyst and investor questions. [Operator
Instructions] The first question is from Joe Buckley of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
<Q - Joseph Terrence Buckley>: Good morning. Thank you. Like to ask a question about the U.S. All Day Breakfast
launch; I don't know if you can talk about the experience so far sales-wise and whether you can talk about the sales or
not, maybe talk about some of the operational issues, challenges, and what you've learned, kind of two weeks into the
national launch.
<A - Stephen J. Easterbrook>: Yeah, hi, Joe, Steve here. So we launched officially nationwide on October the 6th,
and I would say the enthusiasm levels from customers and from our teams in the restaurants are high. It's been a
successful rollout. The Owner/Operators have really embraced this. I mean, to go from a test market in May to a
nation-wide rollout by October is a significant validation of the alignment of the Operators behind this. When they
approved it, they approved it with a 98%-plus approval rating around the country. So there's a lot of unity and
alignment behind it.
And from an operational perspective, having spent a fair bit of time in the markets the last two or three weeks, the
Operators have been really, again, enthused at the fact that this has created – it's been a lot smoother from an
operational perspective than perhaps people had feared. The reality is the ingredients, the equipment, the training, the
procedures is already very, very well established in the restaurants. And by launching All Day Breakfast was at the
same time removing some of the more complex, lower sales items at the same time, we have a net simplification in the
restaurants, and we're driving full force. So it's early days to give too much of a read on sales, but we're certainly
encouraged. And, more importantly, the Owner/Operators are very encouraged about how we have kicked off.
<A - Chris Stent>: Next question is from Andy Barish of Jefferies.
<Q - Andrew Marc Barish>: Hey, guys. Just on the U.S. margin side of the story, is that 400 basis points going to
kind of continue on the labor line, just to try to get us a sense of that investment over the next year or so?
<A - Kevin M. Ozan>: Hey, Andy. As we announced in April, we made this decision to invest in our people and raise
wages, provide paid time off. And at that time, we indicated that we expected the impact of this, as well as other
state-mandated increases, to be about 200 basis points on our margins for the full year this year. Since obviously the
large majority of that impact happens in the second half of the year, that implied that the impact on the second half
would be substantially more than 200 basis points.
So the impact is relatively in line with our expectations. The payback from the investment will take a little time in
terms of lowering turnover, having stronger employees deliver a better customer experience, ultimately driving top-line
sales. Moving forward, it will obviously continue to impact margin comparisons for the next three quarters until we lap
the July 1, but, as you know, margins are also significantly impacted by our top-line. So if we're able to generate higher
comps, that would certainly mitigate some of that impact.
Company Name: McDonald's
Company Ticker: MCD US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 14
<A - Stephen J. Easterbrook>: Andy, just to add onto that, just clearly there is the cost element. We try to be very
transparent about that. Ultimately, the ambition from the move we've made is to just drive the experience in the
restaurants. And we see this as a meaningful move, first of all, to attract and retain the best talent in the marketplace.
And if we can drive some efficiencies by reducing turnover, which a motivated committed workforce tends to reduce
the turnover levels, we may be able to get some benefit that comes back from that. But I just wanted to broaden out the
conversation because, yes, there's a cost. But, frankly, this is part of a bigger picture of running better restaurants,
motivated teams, and committed crew.
<A - Chris Stent>: Next question is from Will Slabaugh at Stephens.
<Q>: Yeah, thanks, guys. This is actually [ph] Billy (27:16) on for Will. Just wondering if now that we have a new
reporting structure, if you could just kind of walk us through some of the cadence and, I guess, distribution, I guess, of
the re-franchising initiatives and maybe some of the new store openings across each segment.
<A - Kevin M. Ozan>: Yeah, so you can see the actual new store openings within each segment in the back of the
earnings release. As far as moving forward and how kind of capital and re-franchising and new openings may happen
in the future, we'll talk about that more in the upcoming investor meeting in November.
<A - Chris Stent>: Next question is from David Palmer of RBC.
<Q - David S. Palmer>: Thanks. Looking back at the summer Lovin' Value Menu, could you just comment as to
where that did work, where it didn't, what are some of the lessons of that? And separately, the simplification of the
menu in the U.S., it seems to be something that is more to come. Where do you stand on that? And where do you see
that going forward? Thanks.
<A - Stephen J. Easterbrook>: Yeah, hi, David. So from the Value program across the summer, I think on the call last
quarter, acknowledged that it got off to a little bit of a bumpy start. As we launched it, it was in a way bumping into
some of the local value initiatives that each of the regions were driving and then we reset. And the performance of the
$2.50 double cheese and small fry improved across the summer as the focus got clearer and our execution in restaurants
got sharper. So it filled a gap for us. We do have a desire, along with our Owner/Operators, of a more sustained value
platform which we'll be looking to introduce through 2016. But it certainly played a meaningful role across the summer
at helping to drive the footfall.
In terms of simplification, I just, again, simplification and the way we're looking at this and the way the team in the
U.S. is looking at it is menu is part of it, but there's a lot more we can do to help simplify the restaurants on a
day-to-day basis, both from a customer perspective but also from our managers and our crew. So there's operational
simplification. There's training simplification. There's things we can do with merchandising to make it easier for
customers to navigate the restaurant, and also with packaging as well. So the team now are sub-teams that are
addressing each of these areas of opportunity.
So, yes, menu is one piece, but the whole operational complexity, the training and merchandising and packaging is
another. And it's the sum of those parts is what managers are beginning to recognize that we are working hard to make
their life a little easier so they can just focus on what they love doing, which is just running the restaurants and serving
customers.
<A - Chris Stent>: Next question is from Matt DiFrisco of Guggenheim.
<Q - Matthew James DiFrisco>: Thank you. The question is you guys cite that the chicken item was – which I think
most of us perceive to be somewhat premium – was a successful driver and welcomed by the American consumer and a
part of the recovery in the comp going positive.
But a lot of the attention has been mentioned about sort of the value consumer and the value coming down, and there's
some votes coming now on the new Value Menu in the weeks ahead. I'm just curious. Has this experience maybe
emboldened you to think the new product innovation might be a little bit more skewing towards the premium side, or
how should we look at where the easiest opportunity is to recover the consumer that might be in the near-term lapsed
and you can get back quicker? And what would be the thing of the marketing they'd respond to the most of, do you
Company Name: McDonald's
Company Ticker: MCD US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 14
think it would be premium or value?
<A - Stephen J. Easterbrook>: Yeah, thanks for the question. And, again, the way we look at this is how can we
deliver the best value across all tiers on the menu? So you're absolutely right. With the Buttermilk Chicken, that was
premium product, premium quality, and a premium price that goes with it. And because of the taste, because of the
quality, and the execution in restaurants, customers really did respond well. As I said earlier, it outperformed the high
end of our expectations.
But I think you'll see as we build our calendars out across any of our markets, but certainly here in the U.S., we want to
provide the best value at each level, great value core products, great value premium. Probably one of the areas where
we're still a little weaker is at that more entry-level value level. And that's what you've been hearing about. And that's
what we're working with the Operators on, and the Operators are aligning behind what they believe will be strong
platform as we enter 2016 to help drive the footfall, because we know that the top-line going into positive territory was
encouraging for us. There's no doubt about that. Our ultimate measure of success will be serving more customers more
often, and that's getting the guest counts moving as well.
<A - Chris Stent>: Next question is from Jake Bartlett of SunTrust.
<Q - Jake Bartlett>: Thanks for taking the question. Just to gauge the kind of, the core, the turnaround in the U.S.
aside from the breakfast all day, wouldn't you think that the fourth quarter in the U.S. would be positive even without
the breakfast all day introduction?
<A - Stephen J. Easterbrook>: It's a difficult one to read. I mean, what I would say is what has given me the most
satisfaction from the way that the team have galvanized themselves in the U.S. is actually we're running better
restaurants than we were a year ago. And that is ultimately what customers will respond to. And then, as we innovate
around the menu and have promotional activity and have fun with that, that will increment the sales.
But running better restaurants day in, day out, and customers are telling us through this kind of very material feedback
loop we have now that they're noticing the changes in the areas that matter most to them, which is speed, friendliness
and accuracy. Through the quarter, it's probably fair to say we ended the quarter just a little stronger than we started,
but I wouldn't read too much into that. Turnarounds are about momentum. And we want to establish momentum over
the short, medium, and long-term. We've put one marker out there. And as we start to build quarter-upon-quarter, you'll
be able to read the more underlying momentum in the business. But running better restaurants is a great start.
Sharpening up our merchandising, simplifying the drive-thru operation underpins everything else we're doing. So I feel
good about that.
<A - Chris Stent>: Next question's from Sara Senatore of Bernstein.
<Q - Sara H. Senatore>: Thank you. I wanted to ask about some of the High Growth Markets, obviously very, very
strong comps out of China and it sounds like Russia also. I guess a couple of questions, one is you did mention that
some near-term headwinds from volatility or slowdown in the economy, but certainly that wouldn't have appeared to be
the case in the quarter, so I just wanted to ask about that comment. And also the margins there, again, on such high
comps, I might have expected even more margin expansion. Can you just talk about is that your emphasis on value in
that market?
And clearly again, with such strong comps, the right trade-off to make, but is that what we're seeing there? And I guess
last piece on that segment is I think you're targeting more of a franchise mix. So is it safe to assume that most of the
re-franchising that you've laid out will come in China and Russia or a disproportionate amount? Thanks.
<A - Stephen J. Easterbrook>: Okay. I think probably both Kevin and I will have a go at that one, Sara. There's a fair
bit in there. So China clearly took a hit third quarter last year. We expected a return to growth, clearly. And we're
pleased that we did. I've got to say I'm very proud of the team in China because they were in a very difficult situation a
year ago. And they set up basically a two-pronged approach to recover the business momentum. One was around
training hard and particularly training hard on value. The second one was restoring brand trust. And actually in that
market now, our trust metrics are higher than they were prior to the supplier incidents a year ago. So I think that kind of
Company Name: McDonald's
Company Ticker: MCD US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 14
validates the focus they put on there.
As we look forward, there are probably four elements that the team are working on across the next couple of quarters:
continuing on brand trust; consistent everyday value at the entry and mid-tier levels. They've got a big and exciting
play around convenience, and particularly around digital activation and delivery. So those are two drivers that aren't
unique to China, but are very material to the consumer in China, digital activation, working with some of the main tech
partners in China. We've got some great relationships there and a very strong delivery business. And the fourth one is
just around consumer excitement, just having fun with products and the experience in the restaurant.
So I don't want to anyone to think that just because we were down last year, you would automatically bounce back.
You've got to work hard for it. The team have worked for it. And net-net, if you look at the two-year comp, we were
slightly up across the two-year period which – across that quarter, which I think is a credit to the team.
<A - Kevin M. Ozan>: Let me touch on margins and franchising. Related to margins in that group, a couple things;
one, certainly China's margins recovered this quarter versus last year as a result of their sales recovery. Russia has
currency pressure. We import a chunk of our food and paper in Russia both in terms of dollar and euro, and so there's
still pressure on Russia's margins because of those imported food and paper costs. So that's still putting pressure on the
margins within the High Growth segment.
Related to franchising, I think we've said that most of our franchising opportunity certainly is probably within Asia. So
China certainly would be a part of that. We'll update a little bit more of our detailed franchising plans as we get to the
investor meeting in November, but I think it's safe to say that that High Growth segment would certainly have
franchising activity going forward.
<A - Chris Stent>: Next question's from Karen Holthouse at Goldman Sachs.
<Q - Karen Holthouse>: Hey, thank you for taking the question. I know when we originally started talking about
some of the wage increases at your stores, my understanding was they were going to be phased in towards $10 over a
period of years. So if that's correct, once we get to sort of the full rollout of the 200 basis points, how to think about sort
of quantifying the next leg of that? And then also on the franchise side of the system, what sort of pressure might they
be seeing on their margins right now from just overall wage pressures and the environment or is there another way to
look at that just general wage inflation rates?
<A - Kevin M. Ozan>: Yeah, Karen. The plan was never to phase in kind of these increases. We did an increase across
the board in July, really impacting kind of all the restaurants. So our average rate right now in our company-operated
restaurants is nearly $10 right now. And so I wouldn't see a significant additional phasing in above and beyond kind of
where we are right now. Certainly, you know, as states mandate changes, we may have to adjust to some of those. But
there isn't another wave in our plans to go and kind of hit all restaurants again.
<A - Chris Stent>: Next question is from Nicole Miller Regan at Piper Jaffray.
<Q - Nicole Miller Regan>: Thank you. I want to understand a little bit more of where you're taking share from. And
I'm not sure these are the buckets you would define it, but maybe you could adjust accordingly. But in order of
magnitude, do you think that you are, and can continue to pick up share from C stores? Or is it other legacy large QSR
players? Or is it from consumers eating at home? Thank you.
<A - Stephen J. Easterbrook>: So this is a U.S. question, I'm assuming, Nicole.
<Q - Nicole Miller Regan>: Yes, sir.
<A - Stephen J. Easterbrook>: So I'll answer it on that basis.
<Q - Nicole Miller Regan>: Thank you.
<A - Stephen J. Easterbrook>: Well, I think our immediate-term is to win back share from the nearer-term
competition. That's what we're focused on. And then as we build out our Experience of the Future, I think that will
make us more attractive to a broader set of customers. But at the moment, I'd say nearer-term, traditional competition is
Company Name: McDonald's
Company Ticker: MCD US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 14
the market share we're fighting at the moment. And clearly, we're playing to our strengths. You know, breakfast has
always been a historic strength, and we continue to do very well at breakfast, during the breakfast daypart, but now into
other dayparts as well.
<A - Kevin M. Ozan>: And just as an additional perspective, for the third quarter, our comp gap was a negative 3.2%.
So we still have room certainly to increase that. That's substantially down from Q2 and Q1. That's QSR sandwich
category that it's against. But we certainly have opportunity, and we have been seeing a few recent weeks kind of the
opposite where we've been out-comping some of that same competition.
<A - Chris Stent>: Next question is from Brian Bittner of Oppenheimer.
<Q - Brian J. Bittner>: Thank you. [indiscernible] (41:24) the U.S. segment operating income was still down a little
bit, even though comps turned positive, and that's obviously because of all the investments you're making. But as you
look out towards the next six to 12 months, given the way you're thinking about costs, what type of same-store sales
growth do we need to see some positive operating income growth for that overall segment? How are you thinking about
that?
<A - Kevin M. Ozan>: Yeah, Brian. We had a little difficulty hearing, but I think you're asking about the U.S. comp
and what we would need potentially to maintain or grow margin there. So we obviously talked about the labor costs
that are impacting the U.S. We've said in a normal inflationary environment, we generally need a 2% to 3% comp in
the U.S. to maintain margins. With these additional labor costs, certainly the comp needed to maintain margins in the
near-term would be higher than that. Commodities right now aren't a big pressure on us. And so the commodities really
aren't the concern. It's more of the comp needed to kind of overcome these near-term labor costs.
<A - Chris Stent>: Next question is from Karen Short of Deutsche Bank.
<Q - Karen F. Short>: Hi. Thanks for taking my question. Congratulations on a good quarter. Just a question on All
Day Breakfast, I guess any early read in terms of what your preliminary estimates might be on the comp benefit from
the rollout? And I guess just maybe any early read on what kind of customer you're getting buying breakfast? Is it a
new customer? Is it a cannibalizing sale? Any color there would be great.
<A - Stephen J. Easterbrook>: I really don't want to give too much guidance yet, Karen. Not to be evasive, but just
when you're a first couple weeks in and we've got a lot of media behind it, I don't want to give a wrong read. We're
starting higher, as you would expect, out of the box than what we would expect our steady run rate to be when things
settle down. But we see it being incremental profitable business that is driving existing customers in more often, and
attracting new customers. So the anecdotals I get as I move around the country and get into the restaurants is if you're
in a student town, you're seeing a lot, a lot of activity into the evenings and the overnights around breakfast items that
it's just cultish amongst the students.
But you can go into a restaurant on mid-afternoon and see a more mature group of people who are sitting there who can
now enjoy the fact they can have their Egg McMuffin mid-afternoon without having to sort of clock watch and try and
make the 10:30 a.m. deadline. So it just makes life easier for customers. They don't have to look at their watch and
manage too hard their time. So broad appeal, a strong start from an operational perspective, from an execution
perspective, and I think the team has done a great job from the marketing launch and just having some fun with it. I
mean, more than anything else, it's fun. Customers are enjoying it, and so are our teams in the restaurants.
<A - Chris Stent>: Next question is from Keith Siegner of UBS.
<Q - Keith R. Siegner>: Thank you. Congratulations. So as this momentum in the U.S. hopefully builds off all of this
stuff from ops and product value, digital messaging, all this, how do you feel about the status of the U.S. asset base and
the opportunity maybe to kind of re-image into this momentum and even further bolster it? Thanks.
<A - Stephen J. Easterbrook>: So you said the word here. The most important word I think in any consumer-facing
business or any retail is momentum. And momentum breeds confidence, confidence breeds – it becomes a virtual cycle
of success, if you like. And we're just beginning to feel some early signs of that. And you can see the confidence
flowing through the restaurants and through the teams. So clearly for a turnaround, you want sustained growth. And
Company Name: McDonald's
Company Ticker: MCD US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 14
we've so far delivered one quarter. So this is one data point. But the steps that we've taken to get to here are steps that
are going to continue to keep supporting our business going forward.
<A - Kevin M. Ozan>: And one of the opportunities you mentioned, Keith, certainly is, as you know, we're only about
50% re-imaged in the U.S. And so there's certainly opportunity going forward to more modernize that asset base in the
U.S. and make sure that we've got the right facilities to bring in the customers that we want.
<A - Chris Stent>: Next question is from David Tarantino of Robert W. Baird.
<Q - David E. Tarantino>: Hi. Good morning. Steve, I have a question or maybe a clarification on how you're
thinking about the improvement you've seen in the U.S. business so far. And I guess specifically on the Q3
improvement, as it seems like it got better as the quarter progressed, do you think that was more about the new product
news that you had or the structural improvements you're making in the restaurants with respect to operations? And
then, maybe as part of your answer to that if you could touch on what the metrics look like on speed of service now that
you've simplified the drive-thru menu.
<A - Stephen J. Easterbrook>: Yeah, I think there are a number of ingredients that are beginning to come together. If
you remember from the past, the U.S. undertook a fairly significant structural change itself now about a year ago where
we eliminated a layer, liberated a little more entrepreneurial spirit into regions. That takes time to settle down. You
can't just hit your stride straight away. So I think as the regions and the teams in the regions begin to find their feet, as it
were, that helps.
I don't want to underestimate just the investments we're making in food quality. You know, the investments that
consumers care about, such as the announcement to go to free-range eggs, for example, such as the quality cues that
you deliver with a Buttermilk Chicken, I mean, that is getting strong. But underpinning it, and I'll never ever move
away from this, any market that's successful around the world is because they're focusing on the day-to-day operation
and just delivering at that moment of truth for the customer. That is what McDonald's is all about.
What we're seeing with speed of service – well, actually we're seeing greater improvement in the accuracy. So accuracy
is probably the strongest metric improvement we're getting, which on the basis that around 70% of the business goes
through the drive-thru, clearly accuracy is particularly important. But we're beginning to see a few seconds being
shaved off average service times as we've simplified the menu and sharpening up the operations. But it's early days, and
there's a lot more progress we want to make, I've got to say that.
<A - Chris Stent>: Next question is from John Glass of Morgan Stanley.
<Q - John Glass>: Thanks very much. My question has to do with the new operating segments, particularly outside the
United States, on two items. Can you talk about is this what the cost savings opportunities you're discovering are? It
looks like G&A in many of those segments are lower, but maybe you're just picking it up in the corporate, or are you
actually finding real opportunities to consolidate some of those under the new structure? And from an operating
standpoint, given your first quarter of operating into these different segments, are there examples of where you're
operating the restaurants differently because different leadership's looking at these markets differently, or is that too
early to really say?
<A - Kevin M. Ozan>: All right. I'll start with the cost item and I'll let Steve talk about kind of the leadership and
running the markets differently. A couple things going on here. One, you may have seen and it may have been a little
confusing, but we tried to explain, one of the things that's gone on is we're moving a little bit from a very decentralized
structure to one that centralizes certain non-customer-facing functions and activities. So along with that, some costs that
historically were managed at a segment level now are being managed or will be managed at a central corporate level.
So some of the costs that were reflected last year in the segments are now in corporate, about $30 million of those in
total of those costs. That doesn't impact consolidated or total G&A. That's more just a reallocation. At the same time,
we've obviously talked about saving real consolidated G&A. And, as I said, we're making progress on that and we'll
give a further update on those activities at the investor meeting in November.
Company Name: McDonald's
Company Ticker: MCD US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 14
<A - Stephen J. Easterbrook>: And, John, I'll just talk about, if you like, the operating segments and just the way the
leadership teams are thinking. And we'll certainly give more flavor to this in our investor meeting. But if I was just to
take the Lead Markets as an example, we've got the five major countries that contribute to Lead Markets. They are
overseen by a team of just three people. Now these are three very senior, highly talented individuals, but the
decision-making and the visibility into those five markets is so much clearer because we've removed the layers that
tend to just obscure what's going on.
So if those three leaders can see something working in Australia, our ability to share that with the Canadians, with the
UK, German, France team and vice versa obviously, is far clearer. So speed of decision-making, visibility into what's
working, visibility into what's not working, and just sharing that knowledge and getting to market quicker with things
that work. We're already seeing the benefits of that. And I think that's incredibly encouraging because we've always had
pockets of excellence. I want fewer pockets of excellence. I want broader-based excellence. I believe the structure will
help deliver that.
<A - Chris Stent>: Next question's from Jeff Farmer of Wells Fargo.
<Q - Jeff D. Farmer>: Thanks. Sorry if I missed the question. I'm actually multitasking myself, but given the
importance of a national price-pointed value platform as you guys have discussed in the past, can you walk us through
the steps you could take to potentially make that happen? I guess what I mean by that is any potential timeline for
formulation of a menu, testing of that menu, and then assuming you're happy with the results, potentially how quickly
could we see a broad-based national price-pointed value platform hit the U.S.?
<A - Stephen J. Easterbrook>: Yeah, so the process, as I'm sure you're fairly familiar here in the U.S., is somewhat
unique compared to other markets around the world, because it's by nature a more complex and diverse market here in
the U.S. We're at the stage now where, driven by insights, we've created a number of potential concepts. Some of those
are in test already, but they're certainly all being discussed and being voted on for approvals and discussed by the
Operators now.
So the national teams have had real rigor around it and have challenged it and have come up with something that we
feel could be strong and compelling, and the Operators are discussing that. And they'll make the right decision. Because
the most important piece is alignment, and we've got great alignment now as a result of All Day Breakfast, and that's
part of the magic ingredient at McDonald's here in the U.S. is the alignment with the Owner/Operators. And I know
they're doing the right thing, working through it, and certainly into next year, there'll be something that we believe will
be compelling from a customer perspective.
<A - Chris Stent>: Next question is from Howard Penney of Hedgeye.
<Q - Howard W. Penney>: Hey. Thank you so much for taking my question. Steve, you used a phrase net
simplification a couple times, I think, in your prepared remarks. I was wondering if you could explain that term. I know
you've talked about simplification before, but what does net simplification mean and how much more is there to go?
Thanks.
<A - Stephen J. Easterbrook>: Yeah, I'll tell you, Howard, and thank you for the question. Because I have strong
conviction around simplifying our restaurant operations, because I believe the customer is the ultimate beneficiary. And
then, when we do talk about doing something like an All Day Breakfast, people are scratching their heads and saying,
well, hold on a minute. You talk about simplification but now you're adding. So when I talk about net, I'm saying we've
got to take more complexity out through our decision-making than we ever put in. So that's where my kind of language
of net simplification works. So if we're not adding any new SKUs into the restaurant for breakfast because all the
ingredients are already there, they're in the chillers. They're in the freezers, the equipment's already in place. So, yes,
there's the operational shift running. There's an operational complexity, but not an ingredient complexity.
In the meantime, around the country, the U.S. team has been very rigorous in their analytics on this in helping provide
each and every co-op with a tool that helps them assess operational complexity versus contribution to product mix and
margin. And then, there's a final screen which is around kind of the brand value. So that's helped have actual detailed
insight and rigor around supporting the co-ops taking items off. So, on average, well, I think you knew at the start of
Company Name: McDonald's
Company Ticker: MCD US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 14
the year, we removed around seven items from the menu. There's probably at least another seven, if not more on
average, across the co-ops around the country now. And I know they're continuing on this path. And as we offer more
abilities to customize and personalize food going forward, that may give us another opportunity to actually take further
items off.
So I hope that makes sense. The trouble with saying simplification is that means whenever you do add anything to the
restaurant, people turn around and say hold on a minute, that's going to make it more complex. We're not going to be
static. We are going to be energetic. We will innovate. We will have new products. It's fun. And that's what customers
want. We've got to make sure that we take more than that out of the restaurant complexity. So I hope that makes a little
more sense.
<A - Chris Stent>: Next question is from Andrew Charles at Cowen.
<Q - Andrew Charles>: Thank you. Just on the improved order accuracy in the U.S., how do you plan to sustain this
improvement as customization and personalization will become an increasingly important component of the
experience, as is the case in Australia; obviously, digital initiatives can be a big help, but any other factors that we
should be thinking about? Thanks.
<A - Stephen J. Easterbrook>: Yeah, I think two-pronged again, just from the day-to-day operation with our teams in
the field, it's around training. I mean, the training that was rolled out across the U.S., which actually, it an Operator-led
initiative initially, was around something called Ask, Ask, Tell. It was a way that we reconfigure our own internal
procedures about how we take the orders, confirm the orders, and then present the orders. And that has had a positive
and noticeable benefit in our accuracy. As we go forward, the more of that heavy lifting that we can get technology to
do, then the greater our accuracy will become.
So whether it's ordering through apps, whether it's ordering through self-order kiosks that we see elsewhere around the
world, technology could certainly help us with putting the customer in charge of the ordering process and allowing
technology to do that heavy lifting and then we can just prepare the food and serve it in a friendly way. So
two-pronged; we'll never get away from day-to-day training, but secondly, we are working hard on a technology to help
support us.
<A - Chris Stent>: We have time for one more question. Next in the queue is Jeff Bernstein from Barclays.
<Q - Jeffrey Andrew Bernstein>: Great. Thank you very much. Actually, just two follow-ups, one on the All Day
Breakfast, I know there's been lots of questions on that topic. I'm just wondering being that you had it at least in test for
a while whether there's any color in terms of what type of lift you might have seen in test market, or maybe what that
mix has gone to in that test market. And the other question was just on the mention you had of commodity costs. So it
sounds like beef isn't that onerous anymore and I think you said the overall basket was only at 1% this past quarter. I'm
just wondering what your thoughts are as we look ahead on whether you think qualitatively that would impact
McDonald's or maybe the industry as you think about promotions and discounting and your new value platform
potentially?
<A - Stephen J. Easterbrook>: Okay. I'll take the first one, Jeff. So I'm a fairly resilient guy. I won't get worn down
by the same question coming from every different direction, but I appreciate the interest in it, of course we are as well.
What I would say is the test markets gave us that curve of initial launch volumes and then the settling down and
sustaining, because that then created a business case that then got the buy-in from the broader Operator community. So
we are confident in the kind of curve we expect to see of the contribution from All Day Breakfast. We're encouraged by
these early days. We're sitting here today 15 or 16 days in, and I can tell you the unity of the system around this and the
response from customers, which is the most important piece, is very positive. We will be able to share a bit more in
November, obviously. Totally understand the interest in it, but it's just too early. It just wouldn't be fair to give a read
on it right now.
<A - Kevin M. Ozan>: And then related to the commodity cost in the U.S., yeah, as we said, it was up about 1%,
primarily beef costs, not a lot of commodity pressure on the other commodities in the third quarter. Going forward,
again with the rest of the outlook stuff, since it's all interconnected, we'll provide an update at our upcoming November
Company Name: McDonald's
Company Ticker: MCD US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 14
investor meeting related to kind of how things look in the future.
Chris Stent
We're near the top of the hour, so I'll turn it over to Steve, who has a few closing comments.
Stephen J. Easterbrook
Yeah, thank you, Chris. And, again, thanks to everyone for joining us this morning. In closing, I want to reemphasize
our commitment across the entire system to consistently running great restaurants to give our customers even more
reasons to dine at McDonald's. We are focusing on executing fewer, bigger initiatives that will ultimately deliver a
better experience for our guests around the areas that matter most to them: great tasting food; fast, friendly service;
contemporary restaurant experience, all at the value of McDonald's. The progress we've made in a short amount of time
gives me confidence that we are making the right moves to turn around our business and reposition McDonald's as a
modern, progressive burger company.
Thanks to all of you, and have a great day.
Operator
And this concludes McDonald's Corporation investor conference call. You may now disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.