Company Name: Home Depot
Company Ticker: HD US
Date: 2015-11-17
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 15
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Diane Dayhoff
• Craig A. Menear
• Edward P. Decker
• Carol B. Tomé
• Mark Holifield
Other Participants
• Simeon Ari Gutman
• Christopher Michael Horvers
• Seth I. Sigman
• Daniel Thomas Binder
• Brian W. Nagel
• Aram Rubinson
• Jaime Katz
• Seth M. Basham
• Mike Baker
• Matthew Jeremy Fassler
• Kate McShane
• Michael Louis Lasser
• Scot Ciccarelli
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to The Home Depot Q3 2015 earnings call. Today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Diane Dayhoff, Vice President of
Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.
Diane Dayhoff
Thank you, Alan, and good morning to everyone. Joining us on our call today are Craig Menear, Chairman, CEO and
President; Ted Decker, EVP of Merchandising; and Carol Tomé, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice
President-Corporate Services. Following our prepared remarks the call will be open for analyst's questions. Questions
will be limited to analysts and investors and as a reminder we would appreciate it if the participants would limit
themselves to one question with one follow up please. If we are unable to get to your question during the call, please
call our Investor Relations department at 770-384-2387.
Now before I turn the call over to Craig, let me remind you that today's press release, and the presentations made by
our executives include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our
expectations and projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors identified in the
Company Name: Home Depot
Company Ticker: HD US
Date: 2015-11-17
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 15
release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Today's presentations may also include certain
non-GAAP measurements. Reconciliations of these measurements is provided on our website. Now let me turn the call
over to Craig.
Craig A. Menear
Thank you, Diane, and good morning, everyone. Sales for the third quarter were $21.8 billion, up 6.4% from last year.
Comp sales were 5.1% from last year and our U.S. stores had a positive comp of 7.3%. Diluted earnings per share were
$1.35 in the third quarter. In the third quarter, as we saw in the second quarter, we had a broad based growth across our
geographies. All three of our U.S. divisions recorded mid to high single digit comps. Every region posted positive
comps in the quarter as did all of our top 40 markets.
Year-over-year the variability and performance across our regions has narrowed considerably. On the international
front, our Canadian business posted positive comps in local currency making it 16 consecutive quarters of positive
comps. In addition, our Mexican business had another quarter of solid performance with positive double digit comps in
local currency. This makes 48 quarters in a row, or 12 years of positive comp growth for our Mexican business.
We saw growth in ticket, transactions and average basket size in the third quarter and we are particularly pleased with
the strong transaction growth as each month in the quarter had positive comp transactions. We view our growth in
transactions as a positive sign of our continued relevance with our customers. As Ted will detail, we continue to see
strength across our store. All of our merchandising departments posted positive comps and we saw a healthy balance of
growth among both our pro and DIY categories. Our pro business continues to be driven by a strong offering of brands
that pros demand, consistent product innovation, as well as services that help them increase their business.
During the quarter, we completed the acquisition of Interline Brands, a leading national distributor of maintenance,
repair and operations or MRO products. This acquisition builds on our existing capabilities to serve our pro customers.
Interline gives us a national presence in the MRO market, which will allow us to expand our share of wallet with our
collective customers. We are diligently working our integration plants and are excited about the opportunities that we
see ahead.
The retail environment has been and is changing. Our customers, both pro and DIY, are changing the way they shop for
our products and services. Our goal is to provide our customers with the convenient and fulfillment options they
require. Whether they buy products online through a personal computer, a tablet or their mobile phone, we are enabling
them to pick up product in our stores or have products shipped to their home. We're investing in making the process
easier and frictionless.
We continue to see healthy sales from our digital business. Online sales grew approximately 25% in the third quarter
and represent approximately 5.1% of overall sales. And about 42% of all online orders are picked up in our
conveniently located stores. We rolled out Mexico's digital commerce site during the first half of the year and although
we're just getting started, we are seeing great results. In Canada, we replatformed our website, which went live earlier
this month. And back in the U.S., we opened our third online customer contact center in Tempe, Arizona. All of this is
a further sign of our commitment to interconnected retail in our geographies.
We continue to focus and invest in our supply chain to drive productivity and to deliver a better customer experience.
As our customers are transacting more frequently through our online channels, we have invested in creating the right
fulfillment options to support that growing business. During the third quarter, we opened and began shipping from our
third new direct fulfillment center in Troy Township, Ohio. With these three direct fulfillment centers we now have the
capability to reach 90% of our U.S. customers in two business days or less with parcel shipping. As you know, we have
been piloting our new order alignment system, which we call COM, as well as Buy Online, Deliver From Store or
BODFS. We're really pleased with the results of the COM pilot and we've laid out a rollout plan for 2016. The BODFS
rollout will follow COM. In the 108 stores where we have BODFS, our on-time delivery service is now exceeding our
target. BODFS will also be rolled out in 2016.
Company Name: Home Depot
Company Ticker: HD US
Date: 2015-11-17
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 15
Turning to the macro environment, while 2015 consensus U.S. GDP growth projections have moderated, we continue
to see positive signs in the housing data with home price appreciation and housing turnover being key drivers of growth
for our business. As Carol will detail, we are guiding our fiscal 2015 sales to grow by approximately 5.7% with comps
of approximately 4.9%. This is after the effects of a stronger U.S. dollar.
Year-to-date, due to a stronger U.S. dollar, our sales growth has been negatively impacted by over $1 billion. We
believe that the U.S. dollar will remain strong through the fourth quarter. We are guiding fiscal 2015 diluted earnings
per share to be $5.36, an increase of approximately 14% versus fiscal 2014.
Let me close by thanking our associates for their hard work, dedication and commitment to our customers. Based on
this quarter's results, 99% of our stores would be eligible for Success Sharing, our profit sharing program for our hourly
associates. And with that, let me turn the call over to Ted.
Edward P. Decker
Thanks Craig, and good morning everyone. We were pleased with our performance in the third quarter, as sales
exceeded expectations. We saw strength across the store as well as continued growth in our online business. All of our
merchandising departments posted positive comps. Appliances, tools, plumbing, decor, lighting, hardware, building
materials and indoor garden were above the company average. Outdoor garden, kitchen and bath, electrical, millwork,
flooring, lumber and paint were positive but below the company average.
Pro heavy categories continue to show great strength and we saw double digit comps in power tools, commercial
lighting, HVAC, fencing, and power tool accessories. Additionally, flooring tools and materials, siding, concrete,
fasteners, roofing, builder's hardware, and compressors had comps above the company average.
The core of the store continued to perform well across the country, as we saw strength in maintenance and repair
categories. Watering, water heaters, ceiling fans, air circulation, hand tools and generators all had double digit comps in
the quarter. Wet/dry vacs, wiring devices, pipe and fittings and ladders had comps above the company average. There
was also strength in decor projects with comps above the company average in special order window coverings, vanities,
in stock kitchens and fixtures.
Our Halloween and Harvest and Labor Day events provided great values and were well received by our customers
resulting in double digit comps in decorative holiday, organization and appliances. Sales of grills, soils and mulches,
pressure washers and cleaning had comps above the company average. Using our assortment planning tools, our
merchandising team constantly refines our assortments by bringing science to the art of merchandising.
Recently we leveraged these tools to better understand the customer preferences in roofing. We updated our roofing
clusters to tailor our roofing brands to specific markets and customers and we introduced more high-definition laminate
shingles. This process yielded great results in the third quarter by providing the pro customer the right brand,
assortment and value; we drove double digit comps in shingles.
Total comp transactions grew by 4.3%, while comp ticket increased 0.9% for the quarter. Our average ticket growth is
a bit distorted due to the stronger U.S. dollar. In the U.S., our average ticket was up 2.6%. Finally, commodity price
deflation in certain products such as lumber negatively impacted our average ticket increase by about 40 basis points.
While lumber prices are down, we were very pleased with unit growth.
Transactions for tickets under $50 representing approximately 20% of our U.S. sales were up 3.6% for the third quarter.
Transactions for tickets over $900, also representing approximately 20% of our U.S. sales were up 7.8% in the third
quarter. The drivers behind the increase in big ticket purchases were appliances, roofing, and countertops.
Now let me turn our attention to the fourth quarter. We recently introduced the new Husky 100 platform of mechanics
tools for our DIY and pro customers. This new platform was designed with speed and access in mind. These tools
feature a 100-Position gear system that allows the tools to work in tight areas where normal mechanics tools cannot
perform. This new family of tools is exclusive to The Home Depot and offers a lifetime guarantee.
Company Name: Home Depot
Company Ticker: HD US
Date: 2015-11-17
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 15
In the fourth quarter, we are also pleased to introduce six new models of NuTone InVent bath and ventilation fans for
our pro customers. This easy-to-install fans have new features that allow for room-side installation with no attic access
required. Easy installation saves our pro customers valuable time.
We have an outstanding offering of product in our gift centers for the holiday season and our best lineup yet in holiday
decor. Our gift centers will feature an extensive assortment of hand and power tools, including amazing values from
Milwaukee, Makita, Dewalt, Ryobi, Ridgid and Diablo. The gift centers will also feature an impressive lineup of tools
and storage boxes from Husky.
In holiday decor we have become a leading destination in the category both in store and through our expanded
assortment online. We continue to focus on bringing innovative and exciting offers to our customers throughout the
holiday season. We are excited about our lineup of pre-lit and holiday lights.
For Black Friday we have fantastic special buys with extreme values for the traditional DIY customer and our
professional customer, including some amazing offers on appliance suites. With all of these exciting products, events
and great in-store execution we look forward to driving a strong holiday season. With that, I'd like to turn the call over
to Carol.
Carol B. Tomé
Thank you, Ted, and hello, everyone. Before I begin, I'd like to remind you that this is the first quarter where we are
including Interline Brands in our financial results. While the acquisition closed in late August, our third quarter results
include one month of Interline as we are accounting for Interline one month in arrear. Finally, while Interline results are
included in our consolidated financial statements, they are not yet included in certain operating metrics like comp sales,
sales per square foot, average ticket or transaction.
So with that, in the third quarter, sales were $21.8 billion, a 6.4% increase from last year. Versus last year, a stronger
U.S. dollar negatively impacted total sales growth by approximately $413 million, or 2%. Our total company comp
store same-store sales were positive 5.1% for the quarter, with positive comps of 2.6% in August, 7.6% in September
and 5.2% in October. Comps for U.S. stores were positive 7.3% for the quarter with positive comps of 4.6% in August,
10.1% in September and 7.1% in October. Our monthly comp sales were a bit distorted by the timing of Labor Day this
year versus last year. In the U.S., if you assume Labor Day fell in the same fiscal month as last year, our comps were
6.9% in August, 7.8% in September and 7.1% in October.
Our total company gross margin was 34.7% for the quarter, an increase of 34 basis points from last year. Our gross
margin expansion is explained by the following. First, we had 24 basis points of gross margin expansion as we reached
certain higher co-op and rebate tiers and recognized that benefit in our cost of goods sold. Second, we had 15 basis
points of gross margin expansion in our supply chain due primarily to lower fuel costs and a higher penetration of
products flowing through our RDC network. And third, we had five basis points of gross margin expansion from lower
shrink. These three items drove gross margin expansion of 44 basis points, offset by 10 basis points of gross margin
contraction due to the impact of Interline. For fiscal 2015, we continue to expect our gross margin rate to be about the
same as what we reported in fiscal 2014.
In the third quarter, operating expense as a percent of sales decreased by 88 basis points to 21%. Total operating
expenses were approximately $14 million higher than our plan, driven by expenses related to our data breach. In the
third quarter we incurred $20 million of legal and litigation-related expenses in connection with our data breach. In the
third quarter, our expenses grew at approximately 33% of the rate of our sales growth, reflecting solid expense control
and sales leverage. For the year, we expect our expenses to grow at approximately 47% of our sales growth rate.
Our operating margin for the quarter and for the first nine months of fiscal 2015 was 13.7%. Interest and other expense
for the third quarter was $240 million, up $127 million from last year. The year-over-year change reflects two items.
First, interest and investment income decreased by $98 million as we lapped last year's $100 million gain on sale of HD
Supply common stock. Second, interest expense increased by $29 million from last year due primarily to higher
Company Name: Home Depot
Company Ticker: HD US
Date: 2015-11-17
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 15
long-term debt balances. In the third quarter, our effective tax rate was 37.1% and we expect our income tax rate to be
approximately 36.5% for the year. Our diluted earnings per share for the third quarter were $1.35, an increase of 17.4%
from last year. The strength of the U.S. dollar negatively impacted earnings per share growth by about $0.03 in the
quarter. During the third quarter, we opened three new stores in Mexico for an ending store count of 2,273. Total sales
per square foot for the third quarter were $366, up 5.3% from last year.
Now turning to the balance sheet. At the end of the quarter, inventory was $12.5 billion, up $487 million from last year.
On a currency neutral basis, inventory dollars grew by $721 million of which approximately $324 million was the
result of the Interline acquisition. Inventory turns were 5 times compared to 4.8 times last year. Payables were up $339
million from last year. On a currency neutral basis, payables were up $466 million including $134 million of Interline
payables.
Moving to our share repurchase program, in the third quarter, we received 1.3 million shares related to the true up of an
accelerated share repurchase, or ASR program, we initiated in the second quarter. Additionally, in the third quarter we
repurchased approximately $2 billion or 15.1 million of outstanding share. This included 5 million shares repurchased
in the open market and 10.1 million shares repurchased through an ASR program. For the shares repurchased under the
third quarter ASR program, this is an initial calculation. The final number of shares repurchased will be determined
upon completion of the ASR in the fourth quarter. For the remainder of the year we intend to repurchase approximately
$2 billion of outstanding stock for total fiscal 2015 share repurchases of approximately $7 billion.
During the quarter, we raised $1.5 billion of senior notes to finance the Interline acquisition. We now have $20.9
billion of long-term debt of which $3 billion comes due on March 1, 2016. We plan to refinance that debt prior to it
coming due. Computed on the average of beginning and ending long-term debt and equity for the trailing four quarters,
return on invested capital was 26.2%, 400 basis points higher than the third quarter of fiscal 2014.
And moving to our guidance, because we are nine months through the year and because we don't think the U.S. dollar
is going to weaken, we are providing a point estimate for our sales, comp sales and diluted earnings per share growth
guidance. We now believe that fiscal 2015 sales will grow by approximately 5.7% with comps of approximately 4.9%.
Our sales and earnings per share growth guidance is higher than the low end of our previous guidance as it includes our
third quarter outperformance and continued momentum in the U.S.
Our guidance also assumes foreign exchange rates remain at current levels through the fourth quarter. We estimate a
stronger U.S. dollar will impact our total sales growth for the year by approximately $1.4 billion. For earnings per
share, remember that we guide off of GAAP. For fiscal 2015 we project our diluted earnings per share to grow
approximately 14% to $5.36. This earnings per share guidance assumes foreign exchange rates remain at current levels
through the fourth quarter and includes our intent to repurchase approximately $2 billion in additional shares in the
quarter.
So we look forward to talking with you at our investor conference on December 8, where we will update you on key
strategic initiatives and lay out our new three-year financial targets. So we thank you for your participation in today's
call. And Alan, we're now ready for questions.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you, ma'am. [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Simeon Gutman with Morgan Stanley.
<Q - Simeon Ari Gutman>: Thanks, good morning. Nice quarter. First question on the gross margin drivers. I guess
for Carol or Craig, can you talk about the sustainability of some of the – I don't know if they're one-time items – the
supply chain piece could be more sustainable, some of the lower acquisition costs? I don't know if that's one time or
there should be some recurring element to them.
Company Name: Home Depot
Company Ticker: HD US
Date: 2015-11-17
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 15
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: Well we're very pleased with our gross margin performance in the quarter starting with the
benefits that we saw from co-op and rebate. This was effectively reaching higher purchasing tiers in certain categories
like roofing, and as Ted described, we just had an outstanding roofing business. As we look into the fourth quarter,
roofing can be impacted by weather of course, but we would envision that that performance would continue. Supply
chain, we would expect to have continuing benefits from our supply chain as our RDC network continues to mature. I
will say however, as you're building your models for the fourth quarter, we do expect year-on-year for our gross margin
to be down. Why? Because we will be selling a lot of lower margin goods as Ted described in his remarks.
<Q - Simeon Ari Gutman>: Got it. Okay and then one follow up on expenses. The business did a great job once again
and you held the line despite some of the increased volumes. Can you talk about how much is it the economic model
that exist in stores versus things that are behind the scenes that we don't see like some corporate or indirect savings that
you continue to realize?
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: Well, thank you. We were pleased with our expense leverage in the third quarter. Marc Powers
and his team did an awesome job of making sure that our stores are staffed to meet the needs of our customers, our
voice of customers results have never been higher, while also driving productivity within the hourly sales force. So
hourly payroll leveraged 41 basis points in the quarter, but it's more than just payroll. Mark again and his team have
invested in new technology to lower the cost of heating and cooling our stores and utilities were down year-on-year and
drove six basis points of benefit in the quarter. While we had breach expense in the quarter, we had $8 million less
breach expense this year than last year. So that was another driver of expense. For us productivity is a virtuous cycle,
and you see that in the third quarter results.
<Q - Simeon Ari Gutman>: Okay. Thanks.
Operator
Next we'll go to Christopher Horvers with JPMorgan.
<Q - Christopher Michael Horvers>: Thanks, good morning. Just a quick follow-up on the gross margin. Is the other
piece around the fourth quarter because of Interline will be a 30 basis point headwind versus the 10 basis point?
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: Yes, thank you for mentioning that. We will have three months of operations of Interline in the
third quarter. The Interline gross margin, as you have probably seen by looking at their public financial information,
their gross margin is lower than ours. So that will be an impact to year-on-year performance. I will also comment,
however, that Interline's operating expenses as a percent of sales are lower than ours. So we won't have an expense
pressure from Interline in the fourth quarter.
<Q - Christopher Michael Horvers>: Understood. And then on the – Craig, you mentioned a comment about the
narrowing of the performance gap across geographies. Some thoughts on what you're seeing there, what geographies I
guess are catching up to the average? Any comments on the Houston market and any other commentary you want to
add there would be great. Thanks.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Let me – I'll start with Texas. We have roughly 178 stores in Texas. We look at all the major
markets in Texas and they actually performed above the company average in total. The narrowing of variability by
markets, it was roughly – the spread was roughly 6.5% in 2015 compared to 10.4% in 2014. So we're very, very
pleased as we work to continue to focus on high-end narrow variability and drive performance up across the
geographies.
<Q - Christopher Michael Horvers>: Okay. And then I guess a question on everybody's favorite topic which is
weather. How should we think about El Nino and how it could impact your business over the next couple of quarters?
Does it pull forward demand into 4Q? I think I recall in 1Q 2012 people could do roofs in the Northeast in January
because it was so warm but on the other hand you have a big home heating and snow removal exposure in 4Q. So how
do you think it plays out, does it neutralize, does it pull forward and so forth?
Company Name: Home Depot
Company Ticker: HD US
Date: 2015-11-17
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 15
<A - Craig A. Menear>: It really depends on, obviously, how this plays out. It could potentially play to a warmer
northern, which means we might have a year where we have more outdoor project business running deeper into the
season. The potential offset to that is a much cooler wetter southern situation. So it really depends on how this plays.
We'll be in position, as we always are, to try to make sure we take advantage of whatever categories will be the drivers
in the different geographies, and then with any luck it brings rain to California, which is desperately needed.
<Q - Christopher Michael Horvers>: Understood. Thanks very much.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Yep.
Operator
Next we'll go to Seth Sigman with Credit Suisse.
<Q - Seth I. Sigman>: Thanks. Hey guys, good morning.
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: Good morning.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Good morning.
<Q - Seth I. Sigman>: Just a follow-up on the gross margin outlook, you discussed the mix impact and the Interline
impact. Just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the promotional activity that you're seeing in the industry and
whether there's any meaningful change heading into the holiday in some of the more relevant categories like
appliances?
<A - Edward P. Decker>: Yeah, this is Ted. We're essentially the same year-over-year in our promotional cadence.
So, there won't be a net impact from promotions.
<Q - Seth I. Sigman>: Okay, thanks. And then as you look at the pro side of the business, very strong trends there.
Wondering if you could update us on the $6,600 average pro spend that you've seen historically. Obviously that
captures a wide spectrum with some customers spending a lot more. When you guys dig into the data where are you
seeing the growth, is it from existing big spenders within that or is it just kind of broad based across the group?
<A - Edward P. Decker>: Yeah, we haven't seen a meaningful change in the total average customer spend. We are
seeing that growth come from our larger pro customers. We've seen that trend for the past several quarters now.
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: So, if we look at our managed accounts, and those would be large spend pros, they grew faster
than the company average in the third quarter.
<Q - Seth I. Sigman>: Okay, great. Thank you.
Operator
Next we'll go to Dan Binder with Jefferies.
<Q - Daniel Thomas Binder>: Hi, good morning. Thanks.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Good morning.
<Q - Daniel Thomas Binder>: Ted, I was hoping maybe you could maybe talk a little bit more about your initiatives
on merchandising by store. You've given some examples in the past, I think water heaters this quarter, you talked about
roofing. Can you give us a little bit of color on where we are if there was a nine-inning game are we still in the early
innings or middle innings?
<A - Edward P. Decker>: Well, I would say it's always hard to put it into innings. I would say our tools are maturing
nicely. Those are mid innings for sure, and then the merchants utilization and the whole change management in speed
Company Name: Home Depot
Company Ticker: HD US
Date: 2015-11-17
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 15
of how we review categories and ultimately get the refreshed product set in the store is our new focus area, and we're
aiming to increase the speed of transitions of product in the store and that's an earlier innings, but in terms of the tools
we're getting pretty well developed there.
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: And, Dan, at our investor conference in early December, Ted will go into more detail here.
<A - Edward P. Decker>: Yeah.
<Q - Daniel Thomas Binder>: Okay. Carol, I don't think anybody asked yet, but just relative to your fourth quarter
plan how are you feeling about things to date?
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: Well, there's a lot of momentum in the U.S.
<Q - Daniel Thomas Binder>: Okay. Do you think weather had helped you at all just in the third quarter?
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Yeah, weather is – as we talked earlier, weather is a factor in our business, whether it was in
a particular category, clearly with warmer weather you're not selling a lot of the winter categories right now, but time
will come on that, and so you do get an advantage in outdoor projects when weather stays better.
<Q - Daniel Thomas Binder>: Great. Great job. Thanks.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Thank you.
Operator
Next we'll go to Brian Nagel with Oppenheimer.
<Q - Brian W. Nagel>: Hi, good morning.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Good morning.
<Q - Brian W. Nagel>: Congratulations on a very nice quarter.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Thank you.
<Q - Brian W. Nagel>: The question I had – I guess it's mostly for Carol, Ted maybe, too. We've talked about it before
but just kind of an update given a lot of the headlines we're seeing from other retailers and data in general. But what
you are seeing with respect to wages and maybe some pressure – any potential pressures upon The Home Depot model
from higher wages in your system?
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: We, like every other company, are looking at what's happening with the wage market. In parts
of the country where there's high employment and there's wage pressure we adjust, but we are able to work through
that, through the great productivity model that we have in our stores.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Yeah, we will continue to adjust market by market as we see the dynamics of each market
unfold.
<Q - Brian W. Nagel>: Okay. That's very helpful. And then any – I know it's early and I'm sure you'll discuss this
more in your – a lot more at your December meeting, but any initial thoughts on Interline now that the transaction is
closed? Any kind of initial findings or thinking about how this is going to meld into The Home Depot model?
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Well, we're in the very early stages of integration, and we're working through that. We're
excited about the opportunity. We know that there is an overlap with our vendor community, and we will get synergies
from that and are beginning to get synergies already. We also know that we've taken our first actions on kind of a little
bit of the reorganization of folks where we have duplicate efforts that we don't need going forward, so we're in the early
stages but we're excited about the opportunities that we see.
Company Name: Home Depot
Company Ticker: HD US
Date: 2015-11-17
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 15
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: And if I could just add a comment from the macro perspective we saw household formation of
1 billion households formed in the third quarter. Many of those households moving into multi-family units. The
Interline acquisition gives us a great selling vehicle to serve that new household, if you will.
<Q - Brian W. Nagel>: Got it. Thank you and congrats again.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Thank you.
Operator
Next we'll go to Aram Rubinson with Wolfe Research.
<Q - Aram Rubinson>: Hey, everybody. Good morning. Thanks for letting me ask the question. Your company has
gone through a history of acquisitions where the pendulum has swung one way and then the other, you were doing a
whole lot of acquisitions in the early 2000s and then, of course, you just kind of shut it down. Now you're swinging
back the other way. I'm trying to figure out where that pendulum feels comfortable organizationally, is it halfway in
between where you had been or are you preferring to stay towards the conservative side?
<A - Craig A. Menear>: No, what we've said, Aram, is that we'll look at acquisitions where it gives us the ability to
gain capabilities that we might not want to go build ourselves. And so if you think about some of the acquisitions that
we've done, the BlackLocus acquisition gave us a data science capability that's being leveraged by our merchants for
assortment and price.
If you think about the Crown Bolt acquisition that was basically a company that was built for us that we sold. When we
sold HC Supply we got it back. That gives us different distribution capabilities for small packaged goods in our stores.
The Interline acquisition gives us the capability to better serve our pro customer through things like open account,
through 93 points of distribution where we can deliver same day, next day, so this is all about how do we actually get
capabilities? Beyond that, really not looking for acquisitions.
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: Right, you might think, well, do you need to buy a marketplace? No, we can build that. Do you
need to buy a services company? No, we have one. So those are capabilities that we don't need to acquire.
<Q - Aram Rubinson>: Thanks. And then just a follow up. I know that in order to prepare for the future, you've kind
of migrated some categories out of the store, at the margin patios, grills, etc. figuring you can sell that online and
devote other space to some other new categories. Where does appliances fit into that mix in terms of migrating them
out of the store versus in the store?
<A - Edward P. Decker>: I would say on that we already have a model that leverages a nice interconnected
complement of displaying the product in the store but then delivering direct from our manufacturers' warehouses. So
we're leveraging an interconnected model from the day we developed our appliance model.
<Q - Aram Rubinson>: Okay. Already showrooming then. Well, thank you. And good luck this quarter.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Thank you.
Operator
Next we'll go to Jaime Katz from Morningstar.
<Q - Jaime Katz>: Good morning, thanks for taking my questions. I'm curious if you guys could comment on capital
allocation policy, and outside of share repurchases what other opportunities you guys are seeing to deploy capital and
maybe to focus on either a product or merchandising innovation in light fact that shares have run up pretty robustly
over the last few years?
Company Name: Home Depot
Company Ticker: HD US
Date: 2015-11-17
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 15
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: We have a disciplined and balanced approach when it comes to capital allocation. The first use
of cash is to invest it back into the business. This year we'll spend about $1.6 billion on capital back in the business
supporting our growth. We then take our excess cash and first pay 50% of our earnings in a dividend, and the way that
works is at the end of the year we'll look at how much we've earned and we will cut it in half and that will be the new
dividend.
If there were ever to be an earnings disruption, we wouldn't cut the dividend. We would just earn back into that 50%
payout. And then excess cash is used to repurchase shares. We think that's the best use of excess cash rather than
leaving it on the balance sheet, which would be value diluting to our shareholders. We do have an adjusted debt to
EBITDA target of two times. We're at that ratio right now. So we have used the financial leverage judiciously, both to
support acquisitions as well as to buy back our shares. As it relates to valuation of our share price, we do have a point
of view. We're not at that intrinsic value, so as we continue to outperform, that intrinsic value continues to increase.
<Q - Jaime Katz>: Okay. And then I think you made some additional commentary on spend for the data breach. Do
you guys see those expenses wrapping up over the next quarter or two or is it still sort of to be determined?
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: Well, there are ongoing legal fees as well as litigation activities. We've estimated another $5
million of expense in the fourth quarter, but there could be more. None of it would be bigger than a breadbox. It's all
manageable. The biggest numbers that we had were the numbers that we settled on with the payment card networks in
the second quarter.
<Q - Jaime Katz>: Okay. Thank you very much.
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: And bigger than a breadbox is not a financial term, but you know.
Operator
Now we'll go to Seth Basham with Wedbush Securities.
<Q - Seth M. Basham>: Good morning, and thank you for taking my question.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Good morning.
<Q - Seth M. Basham>: My first question is around the consumer's behavior in the store in terms of trading up. Are
you seeing more activity of consumers trading up to premium products?
<A - Edward P. Decker>: I wouldn't say it's any more dramatic than we've talked about before, but we do look at sales
by price point and again this quarter we had a progression of higher comps as you went up price points in an
assortment.
<Q - Seth M. Basham>: Got it. That's helpful color. And as it relates to the pro, can you give us a sense of how much
better the pro is comping relative to the DIY customer and whether or not that gap has increased or decreased over the
last few quarters?
<A - Craig A. Menear>: I mean our large spend pro, as Carol mentioned earlier, is actually comping above the
company average and that's been a driver certainly in our pro recovery. That hasn't changed dramatically in the last few
quarters. It's been pretty consistent.
<Q - Seth M. Basham>: Got it. And as you look forward, when you think about all the services and brands you're
offering to the pro and the macro environment, do you think that type of gap can persist or would you expect it to
increase?
<A - Craig A. Menear>: I mean we would certainly expect it to continue.
<Q - Seth M. Basham>: Got it. Okay. Thank you very much.
Company Name: Home Depot
Company Ticker: HD US
Date: 2015-11-17
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 15
Operator
And moving on, we'll go to Mike Baker with Deutsche Bank.
<Q - Mike Baker>: Hi, thanks guys. A couple of questions. One, the industry data that a lot of us look at, the NAICS
data has been a very reliable indicator for your comps historically, although the last couple of quarters you guys have
far outpaced that data at really an accelerating pace. Do you see that as taking incremental market share and if so where
do you think you're taking it from?
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: If I could just jump in on the market share, the census data, the NAICS score for one would
suggest that we have grown market share.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Correct. And again, we compete with a lot of folks across each of our product categories and
it varies widely by product category. Whether that's other big box, whether it's wholesale distributors, whether it's
digital competitors, so we are very focused category by category as to where are the largest opportunities to grow our
business and take share. And that share on a rolling twelve through September was 56 basis points up.
<Q - Mike Baker>: Got it. Understood. One more question I wanted to ask, just on the really strong comp last year,
could you remind us if weather did play an impact on that? And what I'm getting at is the really harsh winter up here in
the Northeast. How much did that help or perhaps hurt the comp last year and how should we think about that as we
cycle against it? For instance roofing, everyone I know up here in Boston had a leak in the roof. I assume your roofing
business is still being helped by what happened last winter.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Sure and I think that's the key is that based on the weather, and we did have impacts from
weather last year, it then impacts categories differently from a timing standpoint. So as you mentioned, tough winter
last year in the Northeast. Certainly as you get into the spring you see people making repairs on things like roofing and
in then some cases a lot of live goods needed to be repaired as well. But then that obviously is offset by categories. If
it's a warm winter, nobody is doing – you're doing outside projects and nobody was doing that last year. So those are
the dynamics category by category that affect our business, particularly as it relates to start of spring and then through
the tail end of the winter season.
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: The good news is that over time weather normalizes. And if you look at our U.S. comp on a
two-year stack basis, we've seen acceleration from Q1 to Q2, Q2 to Q3 and now with the guidance that we've just given
you, that's acceleration into Q4 as well.
<Q - Mike Baker>: Understood. Okay. Yeah, we all learned the term ice dam and roof rake up here in New England
last year.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: It was a tough winter.
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: It was a tough winter.
<Q - Mike Baker>: Thanks.
Operator
Next we'll go to Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
<Q - Matthew Jeremy Fassler>: Thanks a lot. Good morning.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Morning.
<Q - Matthew Jeremy Fassler>: My first question relates to big-ticket projects which continue at a very nice clip.
Anything in the business that gives you leading indicators as to project-oriented business whether it's people looking
for bids, taking samples, etc., on some of the more project-oriented categories?
Company Name: Home Depot
Company Ticker: HD US
Date: 2015-11-17
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 15
<A - Craig A. Menear>: I think as Ted mentioned, while we had pressure from deflation in lumber, we were very
pleased with our unit productivity and pleased with what we saw in our pro business. And as we said, the larger spend
pro is leading the pace there and above the company average. That clearly, those lean to bigger ticket projects, the
building materials business, bigger ticket projects, so we're very encouraged by that spend with the customer. And then
likewise, you look at categories like appliances, that's a big ticket spend as well. So we don't really see a slowdown, if
you will, in big ticket.
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: Matt, if I can add from a macro perspective.
<Q - Matthew Jeremy Fassler>: Sure.
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: If you look at home equity lines of credit, they're down 29% from the peak. But 17 million
home equity lines have been planted this year and 28% of the banks who are underwriting those lines of credit are
stating that their underwriting is starting to ease a bit. But if you think of how people use their home equity line, it's
typically goes into a bigger project like a kitchen remodel or that sort of thing. So it's a bit encouraging as we think
about Q4 and beyond.
<Q - Matthew Jeremy Fassler>: Thank you. And then a quick follow-up, Craig you spoke earlier about the reality
that retail is changing, consumers are shopping differently and your online business continues to grow nicely though it
is still only 5% of the mix. How do you guys think about in the long run operating margin implications of this? And
you think about the amazing flow-through you've had, the very modest expense growth relative to sales, I know that
this will look pretty slowly for your just because of the role in the business even as it grows rapidly. And I'm not sure if
it's possible to think about the incremental margin on the transaction delivered versus picked up in store or shopped
without any e-commerce intervention. But as you look out the next two or three years you might tackle this a bit in
early December how do you think about the role of omni-channel impacting your financial model?
<A - Craig A. Menear>: So the way we look at it, quite candidly, is as one business and in an interconnected
approach. A couple of things. One, we shared with you that we did what we called COGS A. So we looked at
normalizing how we account for things in both channels so that our merchants have a common view of all cost and
expenses. And then, as I mentioned earlier, 42% of our online orders are picked up in our stores. So it's very much a
blended mix and we look at it as a blended mix and so we see it more of the same going forward. And we'll provide a
little bit more outlook as we go into our December investor conference in terms of how the business is coming together
by channel, but certainly view it as one Home Depot for the customer.
<Q - Matthew Jeremy Fassler>: Thank you.
Operator
Now we'll go to Kate McShane with Citi. Ms. McShane, your line is open, please go ahead.
<Q - Kate McShane>: I'm sorry. Thank you, good morning.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Good morning.
<Q - Kate McShane>: I was wondering if I could follow up on the e-commerce questions, with the opening of the
third fulfillment center how do you view the actual store as a fulfillment center? And are you looking to use anything
like Instacart or Google Express as a way to further your omni-channel experience?
<A - Craig A. Menear>: I'll just say we do a lot of deliveries from store today, but Mark Holifield is here and I'll let
him comment on this.
<A - Mark Holifield>: Yeah, our stores have been a base for delivery for quite some time, where we take orders in the
store and deliver them. This Buy Online, Deliver From Store initiative that we have rolling in 108 stores now, and we'll
roll out in 2016, allows us to take orders online, drop them to the store and use those same delivery assets to get to our
customers. We continue to stay abreast of the various offerings in the marketplace. We think the most important thing
Company Name: Home Depot
Company Ticker: HD US
Date: 2015-11-17
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 15
for us to focus on right now is our deliver from store initiative utilizing the assets that we have in place now.
<Q - Kate McShane>: Okay. And if I can just follow up on that question, have you seen any meaningful change in the
consumer behavior with regards to again mobile shopping or shopping through the website sequentially, so a
meaningful change from Q2 into Q3?
<A - Craig A. Menear>: No, not really. We've grown pretty comparably quarter to quarter.
<Q - Kate McShane>: Thank you.
Operator
Next we'll go to Michael Lasser with UBS.
<Q - Michael Louis Lasser>: Good morning. Thanks a lot for taking my question. We've seen the spread between
your same-store sales in the category expand for a couple quarters now. So can you tie your share gains to specific
categories that you've invested in? Or do you think it's coming from the expense of some competitors who are
experiencing turbulence as a result of self-inflicted wounds? Or alternatively could we just be at the point in the cycle
where the incremental consumer who is coming into the home improvement market is more compelled to go to the
big-box home center channel?
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: Do you want to start, Ted?
<A - Edward P. Decker>: Yeah, I would start on the investment piece first. Absolutely we see terrific productivity in
the areas that we have invested in, and from what we can track we believe we're taking share in these areas and I'd
highlight three. One would be with lithium ion battery technology in power tools now migrating to outdoor power. We
have an extremely robust lineup of brands in product, in values in power tools, and believe we're taking meaningful
share there.
LED in light bulbs and now increasingly integrated into light fixtures where we've been very aggressive following the
development of that technology. We believe we're partnered with some of the best folks in the industry and our light
bulb and now again integrated fixtures with LED are very strong and we believe we're taking share. And then in
appliances certainly, you know we've been expanding square footage for some time now, investing into floor space and
adding some additional brands to our portfolio there. We saw double digit comps in appliances yet again this quarter,
and believe we're taking share in appliances.
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: And to your question about where are we on the cycle. We're doing a lot of work in this regard
trying to come up with our own point of view. One thing we've learned looking at data coming out of the Harvard Joint
Center for Housing Studies, as well as John Burns Real Estate Advising Firm, is that homes that are older than 45 years
tend to have higher repairs. And, in fact, the amount of money spent on repairs in those older home is 5.6% higher than
the amount of money paid to repair a home that's about 20-24 years old. There are 40 million homes in the United
States that are older than 40 years. So as the housing stock ages it just bodes very well for big box home improvement
retailers to sell to those customers who need to make repairs in their home.
<Q - Michael Louis Lasser>: Carol, do you have any insight into whether someone who lives in an older home would
have a greater propensity to go to a big box store versus some other retailer like a specialty player?
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: I don't have that kind of insight, but we'll continue to study.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: And what I would say on that is, the merchants will continue to focus on products that make
it easier for our pros as well as our consumers to be able to do those kind of projects.
<Q - Michael Louis Lasser>: Okay. And, Craig, you've been very careful on the call to categorize your large pro
spending customers as outperforming the overall business. What about the pro business in totality versus the rest of the
business?
Company Name: Home Depot
Company Ticker: HD US
Date: 2015-11-17
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 15
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Our pro business in total is good whether it's – as Carol mentioned, managed accounts,
whether it's our consumer credit card data that shows, our pro credit card data that shows.
We've lost some visibility in the small pro with our data breach that we're working to regain, so that's probably why we
don't talk as much about our smaller pro, but all of the data points that we have indicate that our pro businesses is very
solid and we're pleased with the results, whether that's within categories or whether it's at customer data that we have
specifically.
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: Yeah, to put some numbers behind it, if you just look at pro sales on our private label credit
card as well as managed accounts, we know those sales.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Right.
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: They make up 20% of our sales in the third quarter and they grew faster than the company.
<Q - Michael Louis Lasser>: And my last question is you fully anniversaried the data breach from a year ago. Do you
think – and as you look back now do you think that the breach had any impact on traffic to the stores in light of how
strong traffic was for this period?
<A - Craig A. Menear>: It's really, really hard to tell. Clearly if you think back a year ago on our call we talked about
the fact that we were pleased that each month had positive transaction growth despite the breach. We again saw
positive transaction growth as Carol mentioned just a minute ago. When you look at a two year stack comp basis we've
seen progression in two year comps quarter after quarter after quarter and we anticipate that we'll be able to do that
again this quarter. So it's really difficult to get at that number. The only other thing that I can tell you is, as we said last
year, we know that there are customers who were upset based on the e-mails that we got. So there had to be some
impact, it's just really hard to quantify.
<Q - Michael Louis Lasser>: Understood. Thanks so much and have a good holiday.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Thank you.
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: You too.
<A - Diane Dayhoff>: Alan, we have time for one more question.
Operator
Okay. Then we'll take our last question from Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
<Q - Scot Ciccarelli>: Hey guys, how are you?
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Great
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: Good morning.
<Q - Scot Ciccarelli>: I believe you guys saw a bit of a slowdown in some of the energy heavy markets in Canada
maybe nine months, 12 months ago or so after entry prices turned down. So I guess the question is, are you surprised
you haven't seen more of an impact in some of the energy heavy markets in the U.S. and what would those differences
be?
<A - Craig A. Menear>: You know, it's something that we were watching very, very carefully and certainly thought
we might see some impact, but candidly, in Texas would be the biggest market that would have those kind of impacts.
We really haven't seen it at all. As I mentioned earlier, all of our major markets in Texas actually outperformed the
company average comps and we've seen strength across the store.
<Q - Scot Ciccarelli>: And then I guess the last question since this is the last question on the board here, Carol any
update on the extended terms test for the pro customer? I thought we were expected to hear something about that
Company Name: Home Depot
Company Ticker: HD US
Date: 2015-11-17
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 15
sometime in the fall timeframe?
<A - Carol B. Tomé>: You're going to hear all about it on December 8.
<Q - Scot Ciccarelli>: Got you. All right, thanks a lot, guys.
<A - Craig A. Menear>: Thank you.
Diane Dayhoff
Thank you for joining us today and we look forward to speaking with you at our investors and analyst conference next
month.
Operator
And that does conclude today's call. We thank everyone again for their participation.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.