Company Name: Bank of America
Company Ticker: BAC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 17
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Lee McEntire
• Brian T. Moynihan
• Paul M. Donofrio
Other Participants
• Eric Wasserstrom
• John E. McDonald
• Elizabeth Lynn Graseck
• Matthew Derek O'Connor
• James F. Mitchell
• Steven J. Chubak
• Glenn Paul Schorr
• Kenneth M. Usdin
• Nancy Avans Bush
• Thomas LeTrent
• Mike L. Mayo
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to today's program. At this time, all participants are listen-only mode. Later, you
will have the opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please note,
this call is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn the comments over to Mr. Lee McEntire. Please go ahead, sir.
Lee McEntire
Good morning. Thanks to everybody on the phone; thanks on the webcast for joining us as well. Welcome to the third
quarter results. Hopefully, everybody has had a chance to review the earnings release. It's only available on the Bank of
America Investor Relations website. So, before I turn it over the call to Brian, let me just remind you, we have our new
CFO that will be going through the results this morning, Mr. Paul Donofrio. And so we may make some
forward-looking statements. For further information on those, please refer to either our earnings release documents on
our website or our SEC filings.
So with that, I'll turn it over to Brian.
Brian T. Moynihan
Thank you, Lee, and good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to review our third quarter results.
Company Name: Bank of America
Company Ticker: BAC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 17
Today we reported $4.5 billion in after-tax earnings or $0.37 per diluted share. When you think about the quarter, the
key messages, we continue to make good progress in the tough revenue environment due to low interest rates and a
sluggish economic recovery. In addition with the late summer's volatility, especially in the fixed income trading
markets are remaining challenging, but with that, we produced another good quarter of progress in all the businesses.
Before Paul takes you through the details of the quarter, I want to provide a little context from my vantage point. We
continue to make progress towards our full earnings capacity here at Bank of America, and this quarter represents the
fourth consecutive quarter of solid results following the resolution of our large legacy exposures in the third quarter last
year. When you think about over the last four quarters, we reported over $16 billion in after-tax income. That compares
to the previous four quarters leading up to the third quarter of 2014 of about $5.2 billion, including a significant
litigation cost. Returns over the last four quarters in aggregate have generated a ROA of about 76 basis points and a
10% return on tangible common equity.
This quarter, we were able to keep the absolute level of our balance sheet flat to second quarter. But by doing that, we
continue to replace discretionary assets with good core customer loans, and we believe that's a very good trend. We
continue to build record liquidity and we believe we're well-positioned against 2017 LCR requirements. Our capital is
again at record levels and we returned over $3 billion back to shareholders so far this year through common share
repurchases and dividends. Our tangible book value per share improved this quarter to $15.50. It's the highest level in
many, many years.
So I want to spend a couple more minutes focusing on a few drivers in our business. Our teams here at Bank of
America are focused on the everyday engagement with our customers, deepening relationships by growing the core
things we do with them: deposits, loans, managing their risks, helping investor assets; all while keeping our costs down,
and you can see that in our results. When you think about our deposit franchise, we grew $50 billion in deposits over
last year on all organic basis. That note itself is a large bank.
As a reminder, our consumer franchise is the largest retail bank in United States. In our Consumer Banking business, as
you can see, we grew revenue earnings year over year despite the low interest rate environment. We've been
restructuring our branch structure, selling some branches, closing some branches, and changing account structures. And
with that, this quarter our core consumer checking accounts continued to grow.
We grew those accounts and improved the percentage of those customers who use us as their primary bank. And
importantly, the average balance per account continues to grow. On cards, on credit cards, we issued another 1.3
million credit cards this quarter, and active accounts continue to grow. The good news of this is we're doing it at the
lowest cost possible through our core franchise, much lower than other means of growth. When you go to the change in
our financial services business for mobile and digital banking, we now have 18.4 million active mobile customers and
31 million active online customers.
Digital sales this quarter up 30% over last year, more customers are using mobile devices to deposit checks and access
their accounts and now are starting to buy products as well as book appointments. To give you a sense of that, we're
now booking 15,000 appointments a week off of our mobile devices. Our Merrill Edge teammates who work within our
Consumer business helped push us to a new standard of 2 million accounts this quarter.
When we go to our Wealth Management business, this business is showing the effects of lower market valuations,
pressure in revenue, but activity here has reflected good long-term flows, good deposit flows, and good loan growth. In
addition, we continue to invest in long-term growth in this business, more advisors, better products, and better advice in
building and preserving wealth for our clients. And these clients continue to use the full range of our products,
including banking products.
As we switch to our commercial banking business, the business we call Global Banking, loans to commercial and
corporate clients around the globe grew nicely from last quarter and the year-ago quarter. And although investment
banking fees were down year over year, the industry fee goals appear to be down as much or more. We maintained our
leadership across many of the products.
Company Name: Bank of America
Company Ticker: BAC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 17
In our Global Markets business, despite the challenging market conditions in the late August and September timeframe,
we reported $1 billion in after-tax earnings in that business. Excluding DVA impacts, this is the best third quarter in
earnings for this business we've seen in recent memory. Our net interest income in the company is benefiting from loan
and deposit growth, showing momentum this quarter after you exclude the impact of FAS 91.
Focusing on expenses, which we talk to you much about, we continue to hold our costs in check. Expense less litigation
LAS costs remain well below the $13 billion threshold at $12.7 billion. And that was in line with our second quarter
despite the additional costs of CCAR and additional investments in the business. We're taking the benefits of our
Simplify and Improve program, which gives our costs flat, while we continue to invest in customer-facing client people
to grow our businesses. This ability to invest in growth is key to driving our franchise forward.
When you go to the risk side of the house, credit risk remains very strong, market risk remains subdued, and we get a
great return on that bar as you look at it across the competitors. We continue to feel good about our legacy exposure
risk, and the LAS business continues to work itself down.
So the context of the environment we faced, we are operating in what we feel is a solid quarter, as evidenced by
continued progress on our strategy, a strategy of responsible growth with our customers.
With that, let me hand it over to Paul.
Paul M. Donofrio
Thanks, Brian. Good morning, everybody.
Starting on slide three, we present the summary of our income statement and returns for this quarter as well as Q2 and
Q3 last year. As Brian said, we earned $4.5 billion in the quarter compared to a loss of a couple hundred million dollars
last year and earnings of $5.3 billion in Q2. Earnings per share this quarter were $0.37.
Let me mention a few larger items that in aggregate benefited diluted EPS this quarter by $0.01. First, a negative $597
million market-related NII adjustment, primarily FAS 91, cost us about $0.03. More than offsetting this was a $0.02
benefit from DVA of $313 million and a $0.02 benefit from the collective impact of three other items: gains from
selling some consumer real estate loans, tax benefits from restructuring some non-U.S. subsidiaries, and the provision
for payment protection insurance in the UK.
Revenues were $20.9 billion this quarter. Expenses were $13.8 billion, significantly lower than a year ago because of
litigation costs. And compared to Q2, expenses were flat as we managed costs well while investing in our franchise.
Return on assets was 82 basis points this quarter, and return on tangible common equity was 10%.
Turning to slide four, the balance sheet ended basically flat relative to Q2 with assets of $2.15 trillion. However, we
grew deposits $12 billion from Q2, while long-term debt declined by approximately $6 billion. Liquidity rose to nearly
$500 billion, a record level, and the time to required funding is now 3.5 years. Tangible common equity of $162 billion
improved because of earnings supplemented by $1.5 billion in OCI. This was partially offset by $1.3 billion in capital
return to common shareholders through share repurchases and dividends. Tangible book value increased 10% from Q3
last year. And our tangible common equity ratio grew to 7.8%, as equity improvements outpaced asset growth.
With regard to regulatory capital, I want to start by pointing out that our transition ratios under Basel III increased, with
CET1 ending the quarter at 11.6%. However, I will focus my comments on Basel III fully phased-in regulatory capital
ratios. CET1 capital improved $4.8 billion to $153 billion, driven by net income, positive OCI, and DTA utilization.
This was partially offset by capital returned to shareholders. Under the standardized approach, our CET1 ratio
improved to 10.8%, as risk-weighted assets decreased modestly even as loans grew. Under the standardized
approaches, the CET1 ratio increased from 10.4% to 11%, as RWA improved by roughly $30 billion, largely due to
reductions in risks. During the quarter, we announced that we exited parallel runs and will begin reporting under the
advanced approaches beginning in 4Q.
Company Name: Bank of America
Company Ticker: BAC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 17
So we've also presented our CET1 ratio for 9/30 on a pro forma basis, which includes the addition of approximately
$170 billion in RWA, primarily for wholesale credits under the advanced approaches. The pro forma CET1 ratio at
9/30 was 9.7%, an increase of approximately 40 basis points from Q2 on the same pro forma basis. In terms of the
supplementary leverage ratio, we estimate that as of 9/30, we continued to exceed U.S. rules applicable at the beginning
of 2018 at both bank and parent.
Turning to slide five, we grew loans and deposits, both of which are key drivers to our financial performance. Reported
loans on an end-of-period basis increased $1.2 billion from Q2. However, underneath the consolidated number, there
was significant activity I want to take a moment to point out. With that in mind, let's review why loans in All Other and
LAS are declining.
First, the portion of our mortgages that we report in All Other continued to run off due to paydowns. This runoff is
being replaced by new loans, which are now recorded in business segments like GWIM and Consumer, where they are
originated. Second, also in All Other, we converted $6.2 billion of mortgages with long-term standby agreements into
securities, thereby improving HQLA. These types of conversions are largely complete. Third, we sold roughly $3.6
billion of other mortgages and NPLs as we continued to clean up and optimize the balance sheet. Lastly, in LAS where
we record our legacy home equity portfolio, second-lien loans continued to run off.
Now, if one excludes the above activities in LAS and All Other, ending loans in our primary lending segments
increased $19 billion, or 3%, from Q2.
Turning to deposits, on an ending basis, they reached $1.16 trillion this quarter, growing $50 billion, or 4%, over Q3
last year. We produced solid growth across the franchise. Global Banking grew positive 6% year over year; GWIM
grew 3%; and Consumer grew 7%. However, as you can see at the bottom right, if one includes CD runoff, Consumer
deposits grew 10%. We've also included two other tables to give you a sense of the composition of our deposits.
Turning to asset quality on slide six, I won't spend a lot of time here as asset quality continued to be strong and mostly
consistent with Q2. Net charge-offs were flat, around $930 million, versus adjusted Q2. Q3 provision expense of $806
million, and we released a net $126 million in reserves. Releases in consumer real estate and credit card were partially
offset by reserve builds in commercial.
In commercial, we saw small increases in reservable criticized exposure from Q2 driven by downgrades in oil and gas
that were partially offset by some improvements in the rest of the commercial portfolio. Also noteworthy, the increase
in oil and gas reservable criticized in Q3 was less than half the size of the increase from Q1 to Q2.
Turning to slide seven. Net interest income on a reported FTE basis was $9.7 billion, declining $1 billion from Q2. The
decline in long-end rates in the quarter caused adjustments in our bond premium amortization, which resulted in a
linked-quarter decline in NII of $1.3 billion, partially offset by good growth in NII otherwise. The Q2 adjustment
increased NII by $669 million while the Q3 adjustment decreased NII by $597 million. NII excluding these adjustments
improved $292 million from Q2 to $10.3 billion.
Three factors drove this increase. First, we grew core commercial loans. Second, we improved the composition of the
balance sheet in our Global Markets business, which improved trading-related NII. And third, we benefited from one
extra day in the quarter.
With regard to asset sensitivity, at the end of the third quarter, our overall asset sensitivity increased as a result of the
decline in long-end rates, which drove the FAS 91 adjustment. As of 9/30, an instantaneous 100-basis-point parallel
increase in rates is estimated to increase NII by approximately $4.5 billion over the subsequent year, with a little more
than half of that improvement caused by increases in short-end rates.
Turning to slide eight. Non-interest expense was $13.8 billion in Q3, matching the level of expense reported in Q2. The
$20.1 billion expense in Q3 last year included $6 billion in litigation costs. Litigation this quarter and in Q2 was less
than $250 million. Excluding litigation, expenses were $13.6 billion in the quarter, a decline of $600 million, or 4%,
from last year and consistent with Q2 despite additional costs related to our CCAR submission.
Company Name: Bank of America
Company Ticker: BAC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 17
Headcount continues to trend lower, down 6% compared to Q3 last year. LAS costs excluding litigation were relatively
stable compared to Q2; however, we still expect to lower that number to roughly $800 million in Q4 and move lower in
2016. As a reminder, in fourth quarters, we tend to experience some seasonal increase in expenses as we close out the
year.
Let's walk through the business segments starting on slide nine with Consumer Banking. Consumer earned $1.8 billion,
5% greater than Q3 last year. The business segment generated a strong 24% return on allocated capital. Revenue
increased over last year as increases in non-interest income outpaced the decline in NII. With respect to NII compared
to last year, the benefit of higher deposit levels was more than offset by the allocation of ALM activity and lower card
yields. Non-interest income benefited from divestiture gains as well as higher card income driven by increased
customer activity, while service charges declined.
Expenses declined from Q3 last year despite a 5% increase in sales specialists and higher product costs in advance of
ruling changes regarding EMV chip implementation. Those increases were offset by savings from the continued
optimization of our delivery network. The cost of operating our deposit franchise remains low at 180 basis points, and
the Consumer Bank reported an efficiency ratio of 57%.
We continue to experience shifts in consumer activity away from branches towards self-service options. Self-service
trends are driven by mobile banking, online banking and ATM usage. Mobile banking customers increased to 18.4
million, and deposits via mobile devices now represent 40% of consumer deposit transactions. Mobile processing is
better for us and it's better for our customers. It is one-tenth the cost relative to processing in financial centers and more
convenient for customers.
On slide 10, we present key drivers and trends. Average loans grew across mortgages, card, and vehicle lending.
Deposits, as Brian mentioned, continued to increase, particularly if one excludes the impact of CD declining. On this
basis, deposits were up 10% from the year ago. Regarding brokerage assets, Merrill Edge accounts crossed the 2
million mark and are up 2%, while asset levels are up 8% from last year even with declines in equity markets this year.
Mortgage production, although up from 3Q last year, was down from 2Q as their refinances declined. In the future,
mortgage banking income in the Consumer segment will be lower by approximately $30 million per quarter given the
Q3 sale of a small appraisal business. A similar amount of expense should reduce quarterly as well.
Looking at card activity, card issuance was strong at 1.3 million. Combined credit and debit spending volumes were up
3% from last year despite the decline in fuel prices. Average outstandings were down slightly in Q3 last year as
customers paid off more of their balances. However, our balances showed modest growth over Q2. U.S. card credit
quality was strong as net charge-offs declined this quarter to a decade low of 2.5%, driving risk-adjusted margins
higher to 9.3% excluding divestitures.
Turning to service charges, they were down moderately versus Q2 last year – excuse me, versus Q3 last year as we
continue to open higher quality accounts and carry higher balances. These higher-quality accounts tend to have fewer
account fees.
Turning to slide 11, Global Wealth and Investment Management produced earnings of $656 million. Results were
down from Q3 last year driven by lower market values and lower related client activity. Compared to Q3 last year,
asset management fees were up 2%, but more than offset by declines in transactional revenues. The trend of lower
transactional revenues continued this quarter as clients migrated from brokerage to managed relationships, which was
compounded by lower markets and muted new issuance.
On NII, the benefits of higher loan and deposit levels was more than offset by the company's ALM activities, driving
NII down from Q3 last year. Non-interest expense was modestly higher than the year-ago period as litigation costs
were higher and wealth advisors grew 6%. Pre-tax margin was 23%, down from a strong Q3 last year. Margins were
pressured this quarter by a few factors. First, markets declined, pressuring revenue across many products, especially
those in which we record transactional revenues. Second, operating leverage was challenged as areas of revenue where
incentives are high like asset management grew; while NII, where incentives are much lower, declined.
Company Name: Bank of America
Company Ticker: BAC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 17
Moving to slide 12, despite the lower market levels, business drivers improved. Wealth advisors were up almost 1,000
or 6% from Q3 last year. Long-term AUM flows were more than $4 billion. Deposits increased more than $7 billion.
Average loans were up 10% from last year, our 22nd consecutive quarter of loan growth in this segment. The last thing
I would note that's not shown here is referral rates across the company remained strong. For example, our Retirement
Solutions business continues to win in the marketplace. We have won more than 1,200 retirement plans year-to-date,
many of which were referred from Global Banking. On a year-to-date basis, this is up more than 40% from 2014.
Turning to slide 13, Global Banking's earnings were $1.3 billion, generating a 14% return on allocated capital. Earnings
declined from Q3 last year, but were up modestly versus Q2. The comparison to Q3 last year reflects higher provision
expense and lower NII, driven by the company's ALM activities, as well as increased liquidity cost. Additionally, we
saw year-over-year compression in loan spread. However, loan growth was a positive contributor to NII. Growth from
Q2 reflects improved NII from loan and deposit growth. Regarding provision expense, while flat to Q2, it is up $243
million from last year. We've added $125 million to reserves in Q3 compared to a release of $116 million in the
year-ago quarter.
Looking at trends on slide 14, let's first focus on fees relative to the same period last year given seasonality. Despite a
lower level of IB fees this quarter, we maintained our number three global fee position and believe we increased our
market share as industry fees declined. Investment banking fees for the company this quarter were $1.3 billion, down
5% from Q3 last year. Advisory fees were up 24%. Debt underwriting was down modestly, equity underwriting was
down from Q3 last year, in line with industry volume declines.
Outside of IB, our treasury fees improved from Q2 on increased activity. Looking at the balance sheet, loans on
average were $310 billion, up 9% year-over-year, and a similar percent relative to Q2 on an annualized basis. The
growth was broad across both corporate and commercial borrowers, and asset quality was consistent with our overall
portfolio. Importantly, the decline in spreads year over year flattened as the decline from Q2 was relatively small. On
deposits, we saw good performance, with average deposits increasing by $8 billion over Q2. And we continue to
optimize the portfolio, improving the composition towards higher-quality deposits from an overall LCR perspective.
Switching to Global Markets on slide 15, earnings were $1 billion on revenue of $4.1 billion, despite challenging
markets. We generated an 11% return this quarter. Earnings were up from Q3 last year, which included litigation costs
of roughly $600 million, most of which was non-deductible for tax purposes. As you can see, we had a net DVA gain
this quarter, which was higher than last year. Total revenues excluding net DVA declined from Q3 last year, driven by
lower fixed sales and trading and to a lesser extent IB fees, offset partially by improved equity sales and trading.
Non-interest expense excluding litigation improved $102 million versus Q3 last year, a 4% improvement.
Moving to trends on slide 16 and focusing on the components of our sales and trading performance, sales and trading
revenue of $3.2 billion, excluding net DVA, is down 4% from Q3 last year. Comparing to the same period a year ago,
fixed sales and trading revenue declined 11%. Similar to the first half of this year, the year-over-year comparisons
reflect good activity in macro-related products like rates and FX. Conversely, market activity remained muted in credit
products, driving lower client activity this quarter than Q3 last year. As a reminder, our mix remains more heavily
weighted towards credit products, driven by the strength of our new issuance capability and market share. Equity rose
12%, driven by strong performance in equity derivatives, reflecting favorable market conditions. Asset levels were
down modestly from Q3 last year.
Turning to Legacy Assets and Servicing on slide 17, this segment lost roughly $200 million. I want to focus on three
things here: the reduction in delinquent loans; mortgage banking income; and expenses, and compare each to Q2. First,
the number of delinquent mortgage loans continued to decline, down 14% this quarter, as the teams continued to work
through solutions for customers.
Second, mortgage banking income declined by more than $400 million. This decline was driven primarily by three
factors. Servicing fees declined about $50 million as the units we service declined. Net MSR and hedge performance
declined $100 million, driven by gains on MSR sales in Q2. Reps and warranty provisions swung nearly $300 million,
from a benefit of $204 million in Q2 to a provision of $77 million this quarter.
Company Name: Bank of America
Company Ticker: BAC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 17
Lastly, I want to focus on expenses, which excluding litigation were flat compared to Q2, as increased professional fees
offset improved operating costs from the decline in delinquent loans. We believe we are on track to achieve our goal of
reducing expenses excluding litigation to approximately $800 million in Q4.
On slide 18, we show All Other, which primarily includes our ALM actions and the operations of our UK card business
and other smaller activities. All Other reported a $503 million pre-tax loss, more than offset by certain tax benefits. The
pre-tax loss was a result of negative NII, market-related adjustments, and an increase in provisioning for UK credit card
payment protection insurance. This was partially offset by gains from securities and loan sales. Regarding the change in
PPI liability, we increased it because of a notice of future regulatory guidance regarding treatments of claims and a case
ruling.
A comment or two on taxes before we wrap up, the company's effective tax rate for the quarter was 26%. It was lower
than Q2 due to the tax benefits I mentioned earlier. I would expect the tax rate to be roughly 30% next quarter,
excluding unusual items and specifically the recent UK tax proposals. In terms of 2016, I would expect it to be in the
low 30%. As a reminder from last quarter's announcement, we expect that the UK tax proposal announced in July will
result in a one-time tax charge of approximately $300 million upon enactment from revaluing our UK DTAs.
Let me conclude our prepared comments by offering these takeaways. Although the U.S. economy is improving slowly,
revenue growth remains challenging in this interest rate environment. We are focused on those things we can control
and drive. These include delivering for our clients and customers within our risk framework and driving those things
we know will result in sustainable profits and returns. Our results reflect this focus. We grew both loans and deposits
across our business. We've delivered for our corporate and institutional clients in a challenging market environment.
We stayed focused on managing risk, and we kept costs in check while investing in the business. We are getting better
positioned each quarter for the current business environment, and we remain well positioned to benefit when rates rise.
With that, let's open it up to Q&A.
Q&A
Operator
[Operator Instructions] We can take our first question from Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities. Please go
ahead.
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: Thanks, good morning.
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: Good morning.
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: I was just wondering if we could maybe just speak a little bit about the NII outlook given
the dynamics about the stable balance sheet, the shifts within the balance sheet, and how we should think about both the
GAAP and adjusted NIM if the interest rate environment continues to look more or less like it does today. Can you just
help us think through what all those dynamics mean for NII?
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: Sure. So assuming some loan growth and adjusting for day counts, we would expect a
normalized NII, excluding market-related adjustments, to be flat to grind up, and as long as rates don't decline in the
future. In the fourth quarter, we think they'll grind up slightly based upon the realization of the expected forward curve
and some loan growth.
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: Okay. And with respect to the loan growth, is that in the context of growth in the overall
balance sheet or continued stability given mix shift?
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: I think if you just look at commercial loans year-over-year up 10%, last quarter up 3%, so
you've got to annualize that out. And what we're looking at is that we replaced discretionary assets with actually good
core assets. So whether the balance sheet grows a little bit or not is not as critical as the assets within it. So it's probably
driven in near term more by mix than aggregate size growth from a GAAP basis.
Company Name: Bank of America
Company Ticker: BAC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 17
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: Great, thanks very much.
Operator
And we'll take the next question from John McDonald with Bernstein. Please go ahead.
<Q - John E. McDonald>: Yes, hi. I'm wondering on expenses. You kept the core expenses flat to last quarter. Did
you digest additional CCAR expenses and also some costs related to the proxy vote? What are the puts and takes in
keeping that flat? And what's your outlook on the core expenses going from here in this kind of environment?
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: Sure. So the short answer to your question, but then I'd like to elaborate a little bit more, is
yes, we kept core expenses flat and we absorbed CCAR expenses and other investments in the business in the quarter.
Just to take a step back, I think the way we would ask you to think about expenses is we are seeing good expense
progress within our business importantly as we continue to invest in the future.
So core expenses, which, for everybody, excludes litigation and LAS, are expected to remain relatively flat at, call it a
little less than $13 billion per quarter in a moderately improving business environment as we invest in growth and use
SIM and other initiatives to offset inflationary pressures. If the business environment slows, we would have to adjust. If
the business environment is better, we're going to use SIM and other efforts to improve the operating leverage of this
company even as incentives and other expenses increase.
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: So John, I would add one point to Brian. I would remind everybody that we did guide you
that we would have increased CCAR expenses in the second half of the year, so we do have a little bit of that in the
fourth quarter as well.
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: So, John, just when you think about it from a head count perspective because that's what's
going to drive 60% of people costs now, for the quarter we are down about 1,500. In that, we actually had an increase
in client-facing head count for the quarter of 1,600. So basically, we were able to achieve a reduction while we
continue to invest. On top of that, the risk in CCAR FTE count was up about 400 for the quarter. And other business
hiring, especially the new kids from school, were up about 1,000. So through attrition and then through other
reductions, we got that down in that 1,500.
So if you follow that course, last quarter we were down 3,000 or so, and that was 15 quarters in a row or something like
that, down that – we're down a little less this quarter, but you should expect it to be similar pickup next quarter. So the
$12.7 billion we did in the second quarter, remember, was a surprise to all of you. We've held it flat this quarter, which
I think exceeds what our expectations were. We are laser focused on keeping it to that level while we continue to invest
in 1,000-plus people to go generate the business growth you're starting to see.
<Q - John E. McDonald>: Okay. And, Paul, in terms of the credit outlook, do you expect to kind of bounce around
here? You've got charge-offs in the low $900s million and you did about $100 million reserve release. So charge-offs,
$900 million; provisions, $800 million. Is that the kind of ballpark you expect to stay in near term?
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: I would expect to see provision in 2016 roughly where it is today.
<Q - John E. McDonald>: So that's around $800 million a quarter, something like that, ballpark?
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: Ballpark, yes.
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: Yeah, because we're going to get a little help. John, if you look at – you still got a little
excess mortgage charge-offs going through. Card continues to work its way down because of this period of credit
quality, and the question on the commercial side as it bounces around and gets lumpy. But you look at the reserve
release, we're down to $100 million. So think of that sort of $800 million to $900 million range a quarter, and I think
that's a way to think about it over the next several quarters.
<Q - John E. McDonald>: Okay, thank you.
Company Name: Bank of America
Company Ticker: BAC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 17
Operator
We'll take our next question from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
<Q - Elizabeth Lynn Graseck>: Hi. Good morning. Paul, I just wanted to ask you to elaborate a little bit on the
comment that you made during prepared remarks regarding the composition of the balance sheet improving, and that
being a benefit for trading-related NII. Could you just talk through what you did and is that sustainable, the benefit to
NII?
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: Sure. I think the answer is we just sold, for lack of a better word, sold some lower-yielding
assets that we used to farm business in markets. And we positioned them to higher-yielding assets. So maybe we let a
little bit of – as an example, we would let a little – did a little bit less in prime brokerage and sold a bit more in fixed
income where some yields are higher.
<Q - Elizabeth Lynn Graseck>: Okay. And then on the conversion loans to securities for HQLA, given the fact that
you mentioned that's done, what kind of core loan growth are we looking for as we move forward here?
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: By core, do you mean loan growth in the business segments or for the consolidated
company?
<Q - Elizabeth Lynn Graseck>: I guess I'll take the consolidated more than anything.
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: We grew loans in the consolidated company year over year by 1%. It is up slightly quarter
over quarter. I would expect that we would be able to continue to grow the whole company in that range. You're going
to see faster growth in the core lending businesses. We grew that year over year at 9%. I'm not going to stand here and
tell you that we're going to do that every quarter, but we would expect to see more robust growth in our lending
segments. You have to remember that in LAS, home equity loans are still coming down. And in the discretionary
portfolio, even though we're not going to have $6 billion – as much as $6 billion in LTSB conversions, we still are
going to see first mortgages run off there.
<Q - Elizabeth Lynn Graseck>: And just then lastly on this topic, when you're thinking about reinvesting deposit
growth, et cetera, in securities, where are you relative to your new investments in securities versus what the portfolio
yields are? Are you close to breakeven there?
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: In terms of the running-off yields, Betsy, versus the coming on yields?
<Q - Elizabeth Lynn Graseck>: Correct.
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: It's relatively stable.
<Q - Elizabeth Lynn Graseck>: Okay.
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: Our portfolio has been priced down over the years and so it's relatively stable.
<Q - Elizabeth Lynn Graseck>: Okay, thanks.
Operator
And our next question will be from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
<Q - Matthew Derek O'Connor>: Morning. Could you give us an update on the CCAR resubmission and then also
comment on some of the management changes that occurred there as we think about the 2016 process, just how you
might approach it differently or similar to what you've done in the past?
Company Name: Bank of America
Company Ticker: BAC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 17
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: Why don't I start with CCAR, and then maybe Brian will speak to some management? So in
terms of CCAR, we submitted our resubmission on September 30, as planned. That had the involvement of the
leadership of the company and the board, significant involvement for the line of business. We try to keep the regulators
involved and up to speed every step of the way, and they have until 75 days after that submission to get back to us.
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: Yes, in terms of the changes, yes, three months ago, we told you that we were making the
changes, nothing's changed in that. Terry continues to work on the CCAR process, Terry Laughlin, and Andrea has
moved over as Chief Administrative Officer and been heavy in the process from the day that we announced it, and that
transition will continue to take place over the period of time between now and the next CCAR submission of 2016.
<Q - Matthew Derek O'Connor>: Okay. And then just separately, in terms of the credit quality comments that you
provided for the next several quarters, how are you thinking about energy as part of that?
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: I think we mentioned in the prepared remarks that our criticized assets were up modestly. If
you sort of dive into the oil and gas segment – and remember, last quarter, we increased criticized assets about $1
billion because of oil and gas. This quarter, we saw that increase decline significantly to about 40% of that level and
then be offset by improvements in the rest of the portfolio. So we saw a modest increase in criticized assets. We feel
pretty good right now where we are with oil and gas. As you know, clients are going through the re-determination
process.
<Q - Matthew Derek O'Connor>: And just a big picture question following up on that. There's a lot of concern, I
think, among credit folks that energy defaults have increased a lot and will continue to increase from here. But we're
not really seeing all that much pressure, either at you guys or the banks. Is it – are you guys higher in the structure,
different customer base? Why do you think there's kind of less pressure maybe with you guys than we're seeing for the
industry as a whole outside of banks?
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: I think the answer is yes, higher in the structure and that the – a lot of the risk is distributed
out to investors and things like that. And the company's had – the reserve-based methodologies have hedges involved
and it's more complex, I think, just oil price changes. So I think as you look at it, our lending portfolio's done consistent
with our credit quality standards, and it's held up pretty well under the significant change in oil – revenue from oil price
changes.
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: In large corporates, we're just – we're dealing with larger companies that have a lot of
different options. And in middle market, as Brian said, a lot of that lending is mature. If you look at our overall energy
portfolio, we're about $22 billion-ish, and really, only about – 40% of that really isn't tied. Of course, everything in that
sector is tied some way to oil and gas, but 40% of that is not really directly tied to the price of oil and gas. So when you
start just working through the numbers and you whittle that down, then you whittle down for the number of the loans
that we have where we have reserves, it gets to something, I think, that's manageable.
<Q - Matthew Derek O'Connor>: Okay, thank you very much.
Operator
And the next question will come from Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research. Please go ahead.
<Q - James F. Mitchell>: Hey. Good morning, Paul. Just a quick question on the liability side of the balance sheet.
You had highlighted that long-term debt was down $6 billion or so in the quarter. I notice that the long-term debt costs
were down about 11 basis points quarter-over-quarter. Is that sustainable in the context of TLAC? Is there just some
movement underneath the hood or is it timing? Just kind of help me think about where that debt footprint and cost go
from here.
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: Sure, we generally don't comment on our issuance plans. I guess the only advice I would
give you is we're going to try to have preferred that's roughly 1.5% of tier 1 capital and some debts that's roughly 2%.
And in terms of TLAC, we don't know what the rules are yet. We may have to issue a little bit more debt, but based
Company Name: Bank of America
Company Ticker: BAC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 17
upon what we're hearing, at least from a sort of rumor perspective, it looks to be quite manageable.
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: Yeah. Technically, quarter-to-quarter, there were some hedges that went from a deduct to a
benefit that – or the other way around, that changed that rate. So I wouldn't think that the underlying rates haven't
changed much is the way to think about it. There's just a hedge cost and hedge benefit that came through that improves
the spread.
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: Are you referring to the decline in the – to the yield? Sorry.
<Q - James F. Mitchell>: Right. No, that's all helpful. And maybe just on the loan growth side, what are you seeing on
the demand side? It's – Consumer has begun to pick up for you guys. Where are you seeing the most strength? And do
you think the environment still is pretty positive from a loan demand perspective in the U.S.?
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: Yes. Well, remember, we're focused, in the Consumer business, on two things that we've
been consistently focused on. We are making loans to our customers; i.e., in connection with the whole franchise, and
then secondly, we are staying in the very prime orientation. So if you think about this quarter, home equity production
was $3 billion-ish, which was consistent with other quarters. It had grown from $1 billion up to $3 billion over the last
couple of years and has been very inconsistent. As Paul said earlier, mortgage just tipped down a little bit, but
year-over-year, they're up strong, a little bit of seasonality in there and a little bit of refi runoff.
Our auto lending business is still – was strong. The direct-to-consumer piece of that, we didn't have – two years, three
years ago, we were up to $0.5 billion of quarter production. So we're seeing good demand, but part of it is just
capturing that inherent client share, wallet share that we've been after, and you're seeing that materialize. The other key,
honestly, in terms of nominal growth for us is the runoff non-core part that's gotten small enough the last couple of
years that we no longer comment. So the only place we still have that hole from a corporate perspective is really the
home equity business. So we resized the card business, and you're seeing all the hard work, the 1.3 million cards
producing some loans, even though it's a huge payment rate on that.
You're seeing the auto lending business, both direct-to-consumer and then what we do with dealers and stuff, strong
and stable, and you saw the car sales numbers strong, and you're seeing the consumer real estate strong from a home
equity production and I think solid.
When you go over to GWIM, you saw loan growth there between U.S. Trust and what we call structured lending, but it
– don't take it that way as lending, assets, flow of assets, and then also the margin lending was fairly stable. I talked to
John. We haven't seen a big change on our margin lending. A lot of people think that, that sort of lower the risk, but it's
basically been relatively stable across the last few months.
<Q - James F. Mitchell>: Okay, great. That's helpful. Thanks.
Operator
Our next question comes from Steven Chubak with Nomura. Please go ahead.
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: Hello, Steven?
Operator
Hello, Steven? Your line is open. Please check the mute button.
<Q - Steven J. Chubak>: Sorry. Can you hear me now?
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: Yes.
<Q - Steven J. Chubak>: All right. Apologies for that. So one of your competitors revealed that there are efforts to
mitigate some of the GCIB indicators had actually helped push them into a lower GCIB bucket. And looking at the
Company Name: Bank of America
Company Ticker: BAC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 17
metrics that have been published as of year-end, it looks like you're actually closer to the lower end of that 3%
threshold, and we've seen some progress in terms of reduction in Level 3 assets at your end. I just wanted to see if you
actually see opportunities to manage that bucket lower, somewhere closer to 2.5%.
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: We always manage the balance sheet against all the different constraints, whether that's –
you can see the improvement in the pro forma advanced ratio by 40 basis points this quarter, closing down the gap. So
we're always looking to manage the balance sheet. I wouldn't put a lot of stake in us moving ourselves fundamentally in
buckets at this point because we've been working at that the last three years to make sure that if this rule is going to
come out that we have had ourselves positioned as well as we could. So we'll continue to work on it, but I wouldn't
expect us to change. If you look about the risk assets and Level 3 assets and things like that in our company continue to
trend down, and we just work the balance sheet. But I wouldn't say that we expect to move the bucket. We could, but
we don't expect to.
<Q - Steven J. Chubak>: Okay, that's really helpful. Thanks, Brian. And maybe just digging into some of the GWIM
guidance that, Paul, you had given earlier, the negative operating leverage has been fairly pronounced, which you
acknowledged, and I did appreciate the detail at least on some of the specific factors that weigh on the margin such as
litigation and maybe some remixing in terms of revenue. But I just wanted to get a sense as to how we should be
thinking about that margin trajectory going forward, assuming no elevated litigation and without any rate boost, just to
get a sense as to how we should be thinking about that profitability trajectory.
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: If you remember last quarter, we talked a bit about this. There are some things that will
help us, which are that some of the deal stuff runs off this year relative to next year, which should give us some positive
help. It's round numbers nearly $100 million a quarter of expense. So that's just amortization that finally runs off, so
that's a positive. And I think Paul cited this and you cited back the examples of some of the non-recurring things.
I think you have to be careful on the year-over-year comparisons on the margin because this business, there's a big bank
inside our Tier 1 business, so a $250 billion deposit franchise, a big mining franchise, so all the dynamics that we talk
about from the corporate obviously hit them also. And so they'll benefit more by stability in that as we compare
quarters. And then hopefully, they'll grow out of that as they grow loans and deposits. But I think that's the thing.
The question then comes down to more philosophically, would you pull – quit investing in new advisors to get a point
on margin or so. And in the context of the business earning $600 million to $700 million after tax for us and the context
of needing to drive it to another level, we still believe the right trade is to continue to invest in growth. And if the world
changed and those people weren't becoming successful, which they are, we would change that.
And the thought is that we're adding advisors. You don't see that in other people's franchises, and we're doing it in
connection with the Consumer Bank, which is a critical increased success factor for our advisors. In other words, if we
hire people in what they call BFAs that work within the consumer franchise but are on Merrill teams, and we're seeing
them get up to speed fast, we think that's a competitive advantage for people entering this business, and we'll continue
to invest in that. So if we can't see the success, we'll pull back on that. But right now, it's worth it for our shareholders
and our customers.
<Q - Steven J. Chubak>: Okay, thanks for that detail, Brian, and maybe just one more from me on the investment
banking side. One of your competitors was talking about a pause in activity that they've experienced so far in 4Q. I
recognize it's early days, but just wanted to get a sense as to what you're seeing within the Global Banking and Markets
businesses. And also if you could provide just some additional color or detail on what you're seeing in the backlogs by
channel, that would be really helpful too.
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: I'll let Paul hit that in terms of the – but I just want to make sure, you're talking about
trading or investment banking fees or both?
<Q - Steven J. Chubak>: Both.
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: Okay. Paul?
Company Name: Bank of America
Company Ticker: BAC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 17
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: So I guess in terms of the pipeline, the pipeline right now looks quite – if this was
investment banking fees, the pipeline right now looks quite strong. There's a decent amount of M&A in it, the timing of
which can move around a lot. Some of the pipeline increase I guess can be attributed to transactions that were in our
pipeline in the third quarter -didn't come out in the third quarter and are rolling over into the fourth quarter. We saw
that type of activity in ECM. And as markets improve, we hope that pipeline activity will come out.
In terms of sales and trading, we talked a little bit about that in the prepared remarks. We saw I think good activity in
equity sales and trading. As clients needed to rebalance risk or take advantage of opportunities, particularly in Asia, we
were getting some of that flow and feel good about it. On the other hand, we do have a strong FICC business that's tied
to new issuance. And the new issuance market in the third quarter wasn't as strong, so some of those flows just went
there.
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: Year over year, last year's fourth quarter was pretty tough. So I think even better than that
wouldn't be great performance in sales and trading, but Tom [Montag] and the team have got the business pretty well
positioned in terms of effectiveness. And that's why even with the slowdown in the latter part of the quarter, we still
made $1 billion. When you subtract out DVA, it's $800 million or so, and that's good performance numbers.
<Q - Steven J. Chubak>: All right, great. That's it from me. Thank you for taking my questions.
Operator
And we'll go next to Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI. Please go ahead.
<Q - Glenn Paul Schorr>: Hi, thanks, a couple of quick follow ups. I hear all your comments, so no need to repeat
them on feeling decent about credit quality and energy specifically. I'm just looking for two pieces of info, if you're
willing to share, either reserve as a percentage of loans for energy specifically, or maybe what percentage of the
criticized exposure is energy-related? I'm just looking for more detail behind the comfort. Thanks.
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: I don't think we have any of that perspective with us handy. And I'm not sure we'd disclose
that, but we'll follow up with you if we do.
<Q - Glenn Paul Schorr>: Okay, worth trying. In terms of what's going on in terms of the mix shift on balance sheet
on some of the discretionary assets and into the core loan growth, I think everybody will take that all day long. I'm
curious on if there are RWA implications that we need to think about. Is that a heavier RWA mix? Even though we'll
take it, I'm just curious on how that plays on the capital side.
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: I think that as we grow loans, obviously our RWA is going to increase particularly on a
standardized basis. It's less of an increase on an advanced basis, but they are – it will be tied. And as you said, we're
comfortable with that given the interaction with our clients and the opportunity that brings to increase our margins
relative to other investment opportunities.
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: I think as you think about it, remember that if you go look at page five and you look at the
content of what's leading, coming on, especially in the Consumer business and then think about running that through all
kinds of models, including in the CCAR process, and think about getting rid of $5 billion of home equity loans which
are basically non-performing and putting on $3 billion of good home equity loans, that dynamic is pretty favorable to
the overall calculations. And so it's not only within categories – it's not only categories, it's also within categories that
we're seeing improvement in credit quality on what's coming on, especially when you run through models and things
like that.
<Q - Glenn Paul Schorr>: Okay, I appreciate that. One last one on – you commented earlier about the strength in
equities partially driven by the good performance in the derivatives business during the quarter. I guess the question is
it ebbs and flows, but maybe over the last 12 months, not just the last quarter, is derivs 40% – 50% of overall equities?
Is that a number you're willing to share?
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: Are you talking about the percentage of equities as a function of what?
Company Name: Bank of America
Company Ticker: BAC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 17
<Q - Glenn Paul Schorr>: I'm saying in any given period, your equity markets revenues, how much of that is driven
via the derivatives business?
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: We'll get to you on that.
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: Okay, we'll get back to you on that.
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: I think it's less than half, but I don't have the number off the top my head. But I think you
can look at it in various pieces. We're checking it now. But remember that it is an integrated business – it's between
30% and 40%, we just found the number. But remember, it's an integrated business, so you can't say grow derivatives,
but the cash – the clients do all things with us including fixed income and equity, so all together. So think 30% to 40%.
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: Of equities.
<Q - Glenn Paul Schorr>: Understood. All right. Thank you.
Operator
And our next question comes from Ken Usdin with Jefferies. Please go ahead.
<Q - Kenneth M. Usdin>: Hi. Good morning. Brian, just one question, follow up on the loan side. You talked about
the demand and where you're seeing it, but I'm just wondering in terms of like the no excuses growth mentality from a
supply side, where are the lending officers now in terms of like using the excess capacity to continue to grow the
balance sheet? Is there still room from the BofA supply side to extend that growth on top of what the economy and the
marketplace is giving you broadly?
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: Yes. I think – so if you look at the different segments, if you think about on the Consumer
side, using – it's more sales force growth than effectiveness, and so – in building that team, and then also the digital
sales coming up, whether it's autos, whether it's credit cards, they're up dramatically. So think of that engine as being
both people and machine for lack a better term. But don't think of it as change in credit quality or taking any more risk.
Tom and Dean who run that business for us have done a good job. And so I'd say the supply is there more from a
delivery capacity than it is from a – expanding the box or anything like that. We've really kept it to where we want it
and we think that holds us in good stead as you think through all the different dynamics in our company.
When you go to the commercial side, it is simply a couple things. In a very small business which we've reported, we've
actually seen that business stabilize and start to make its way out of a run-off position and that's, again, more automated
scored approach. We sped up approval times and done a lot of work to make ourselves more competitive more on
delivery than credit. But if you go into Business Banking, commercial banking, global growth investment banking
segment, there are three versions, Katy Knox and the team, they've actually hired over 100 people, loan officers this
year, so think of that as 10% to 15% growth in loan officers, got them hired and then working. It takes time to get them
up to speed, [indiscernible] (1:00:55) in our middle-market businesses, I think that's up 60 this year, something like
that, 70 people delivering lending and products and think behind that also as Treasury Services people. So again,
capacity expansion and the global corporate investment banking look differently.
As we look at middle-market, I think that's an area where we are – we used to think if we're going to take 10, let's only
take eight, that's better. We're now telling our teams, you need to – we need to understand why you're not taking 10 if
that's our whole limit in our capacity in a given transaction as example and they are doing that. So I think we are
probably creating a little more, not risk rating type of supply but just we're taking a little bit more of loans because
we're twice the equity we used to be. And therefore we can absorb it and the team does a great job in credit quality
there.
So I'd say if you looked out across the board: Consumer, it's more delivery capacity; and commercial, it's more both
delivery capacity and then as you cited, sort of taking a little more risk in terms of dollar denomination but not in terms
Company Name: Bank of America
Company Ticker: BAC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 17
of credit quality.
<Q - Kenneth M. Usdin>: Okay. Got it. And then, Paul one quick follow up on GWIM, can you just reminded us how
that business kind of marks itself in terms of the asset-level pricing versus the transactions? It seems like those kind of
went different directions this quarter and the result was kind of flattish on a revenue perspective, so what do we need to
think about in terms of where the markets have come and where we're looking ahead in terms of asset level versus
transaction type revenue activity?
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: Half of those would be AUM. So we continue to grow AUM. And that's all good; I mean,
we grew it a little bit slower this quarter, but in a bad market environment, we continue to grow AUM, we continue to
grow deposits, we continue to grow loans. I think everyone is doing their job. You're right that when market activities
lower, we tend to see less activity in the transactional side of that business. There's a lot of new issuance there, mutual
buying of other products that just don't come to market, and that's sort of exacerbates things when the markets are bad.
Does that answer your question?
Operator
And we can take our next question from Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: Good morning, Nancy.
<Q - Nancy Avans Bush>: Good morning, guys. How are you?
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: Good.
<Q - Nancy Avans Bush>: Two questions. One, there is an issue out there, I think supposed to happen in 2018, on
credit quality. It's this current expected credit loss. Can you just tell us where the argument is about that right now and
whether you've been able to do any preliminary work about how that would impact you?
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: I don't think – yes, Nancy, the idea of a lifelong type of reserving on the commercial – all
loans, it's out there. The FASB is working on it. I think there have been voluminous comments on it, big questions
about it; but when it comes out, we'll make it. It will be basically a one-time adjustment type of thing, and it will be
over within – and so over the course of time it should come out the same because you think about it, this is just putting
it all in front. You put the loans on, and the commercial side especially would be a change. So we'll get to that when we
get to that, but it hasn't been clarified what the rule is. Lots of people commenting on it and it would be a onetime thing,
and as you say, somewhere out in 2018 is what people currently think.
<Q - Nancy Avans Bush>: Okay. Secondly, another credit quality question. I mean there was a lot of speculation
before the quarter that – and I think this is probably based on the energy outlook, that this would be the "inflection
point quarter" and beginning to build reserves. But what you're saying and what JPMorgan said yesterday was that the
credit quality outlook remains pretty stable. Can you just comment on this inflection point issue and when you think
we'll get there?
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: Well, we're still seeing reserve releases on the Consumer side of the bank. They're certainly
starting to moderate. And consistent with loan growth, we're seeing some reserve additions on the commercial side of
the bank. And as I said earlier, if you're looking for when those lines are going to sort of cross, we think provision, as
Brian and I both said, is going to be roughly sort of $800 million to $900 million in 2016. That's kind of where the
conversion is going to happen, some place – per quarter. That's someplace in 2016.
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: I think, Nancy, remember, so we still have massive risk coming off in Consumer that are
not in the least reserves are going over to the commercial side and some that's coming up that $100 million-plus this
quarter. We expect that to probably mitigate. And then if you get loan growth, you'll build reserves at some point but I
think that's still a bit out.
Company Name: Bank of America
Company Ticker: BAC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 16 of 17
<Q - Nancy Avans Bush>: So sometime in 2016 probably?
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: Well, that depends on what the loan growth is and it depends on the economic scenario but
I think we're still repositioning reserves on the Consumer side that are excess, as you can see in the credit statistics,
we're carrying the healthy reserve for areas that are continuing to come down in terms of risk.
<Q - Nancy Avans Bush>: Okay, thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from Paul Miller with the FBR Capital Markets.
<Q - Thomas LeTrent>: Good morning, guys. It's actually Thomas LeTrent on behalf of Paul. Most have been asked
and answers, but one quick question on the servicing side. The servicing income has been coming down at a faster rate
than the portfolio, and I know you guys have exited most of the sales on the portfolio side. So at what point can we
expect the fees to level off, and is that just a function of the legacy stuff continuing to run off?
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: So if you go to page 17, you can see that the rate of reduction will come down, will slow
down, but it will still come down on the series units we're doing. But remember the other issue we have is we're
holding more of the loan, so that from a corporate perspective, that also has an effect here. It comes in yield and not in
servicing fees. So expect to see it work its way down to – it's $345 million this quarter; I think $300-ish million is
where it ought to sort of flatten out.
<Q - Thomas LeTrent>: Okay. And then also on slide 17, if I may, on the 60 days delinquent, how much of that is –
the quarterly change, how much of that is from sales? Or is that mostly just runoff?
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: I would say most of it is just runoff.
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: We're just working it out continuously, and so we've still got room to go to get it
normalized. But there's nothing big, material going on in terms of sales and stuff this quarter.
<Q - Thomas LeTrent>: Okay, that's all. Thank you.
Operator
And we'll take today's last question from Mike Mayo with CLSA. Please go ahead.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: Hi. Three small questions. First, you sold $3.6 billion of assets, mortgages, and NPLs. What
was the gain or sale on those sales? I'm sorry, the gain or loss?
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: In total on our gains on all of our loan sales in the quarter, it was $400 million.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: I'm sorry, $400 million?
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: $400 million.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: Okay, that added a little bit. Can we assume that repeats, or this is a one-off?
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: No, if you look, Mike, it's in the puts and takes we put on the first slide there.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: Okay, that's fine. Higher rates, you're more asset-sensitive now, I guess $4.5 billion, 100 basis
points. You were $3.9 billion last quarter. Are you intentionally – I mean how do you think about that? Are you leaving
money on the table by being so asset-sensitive? Do you want to be this asset-sensitive? Maybe give the answer in the
context of the last jobs report which seems to imply rates will increase later than previously expected.
Company Name: Bank of America
Company Ticker: BAC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 17 of 17
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: We have not changed how we manage the interest rates in the company. All that happened
was long-end rates went down from Q2 to Q3, increasing that number.
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: The FAS 91 is really the major difference.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: And then lastly, Paul, you're new on the job as CFO. Actually, Brian, this is the first call when
we can ask the question: why did the old CFO leave? We've heard a lot of different reports. So why did the last CFO
leave? And, Paul, as you're new in the job as CFO, what changes might you want to make? And, Paul or Brian, if rates
don't go up for a lot longer than you expected, what is your Plan B to deal with the tougher environment?
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: So let me answer that one, and I'll let Paul. As we just talked about three months ago,
Bruce has served as Chief Risk Officer and CFO for a combined six years and wanted to get back and run a business or
do something different. So we announced that and Paul became CFO. There's nothing new to add.
In terms of what we do in the environment, as we've said multiple times to earlier questions, we continue to be able to
hold the core expenses flat while we make the investments, pay the increased CCAR expenses, pay for the cost of
repositioning the franchise, severance and everything, and we'll continue to work that. If the environment changed and
we didn't think we're getting returns on that, which is good for the long-term interests of our shareholders, we would
reduce the investment rate.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: And, Paul, philosophy on being CFO, any changes with your predecessor?
<A - Paul M. Donofrio>: I think it's a little early for me to have developed a plan in terms of radical change. We have
– Bruce did a tremendous job of cleaning up the balance sheet and positioning our company for growth. We've got a
great team that he built, and I'm getting to know all that, and we'll see how it goes.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: All right, thank you.
<A - Brian T. Moynihan>: Thanks.
Operator
And as it appears we have no further questions, I'd like to return the program to Mr. Lee McEntire for closing remarks.
Lee McEntire
Thanks for joining, everybody. We'll talk to you next quarter.
Operator
And this does conclude today's program. Thanks for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.