Company Name: Monsanto
Company Ticker: MON US
Date: 2015-10-07
Event Description: Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 16
Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Laura J. Meyer
• Hugh M. Grant
• Brett D. Begemann
• Pierre C. Courduroux
• Robert T. Fraley
Other Participants
• Don Carson
• Vincent Stephen Andrews
• Christopher S. Parkinson
• P.J. Juvekar
• Stephen Byrne
• Jeffrey J. Zekauskas
• Robert Andrew Koort
• David I. Begleiter
• Mark W. Connelly
• Sandy H. Klugman
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Greetings, and welcome to the Monsanto Company's fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call. At this time, all
participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator
Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Laura Meyer, Investor Relations for Monsanto. Please go ahead, Ms.
Meyer.
Laura J. Meyer
Thank you, Kevin, and good morning, everyone. I'm joined this morning by: Hugh Grant, our Chairman and CEO;
Brett Begemann, our President and Chief Operating Officer; and by Pierre Courduroux, our CFO. Also joining me from
the IR team are Tim Boeker, Priyal Patel, and Ashley Wissmann.
Our fourth quarter call provides the wrap-up of our fiscal year and importantly, our views into our outlook for the
coming year. Today, we will be sharing a business and strategic overview, as well as a summary of our fourth quarter
results. This call is being webcast and you can access the webcast, supporting slides and the replay at monsanto.com.
We have provided you today with EPS and other measures on both a GAAP and ongoing business basis. Where we
refer to non-GAAP financial measures, we reconcile to GAAP in the slides and in the press release, both of which are
on the website.
Company Name: Monsanto
Company Ticker: MON US
Date: 2015-10-07
Event Description: Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 16
This call will include statements concerning future events and financial results. Because these statements are based on
assumptions and factors that involve risk and uncertainty, the company's actual performance and results may vary in a
material way from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements. A description of the factors that may
cause such a variance is included in the Safe Harbor language in our most recent 10-Q and in today's press release. The
forward-looking statements are current only as of the date of this call, and the company disclaims any obligation to
update them or the factors that may affect actual results.
First and foremost, let me review our fourth quarter and full year results as shown on slide three and slide four. Our full
year ongoing earnings per share of $5.73 reflects year-over-year growth of 10%, which expands to 17% growth on an
ongoing currency neutral basis. For the fourth quarter, we incurred an ongoing $0.19 loss per share, which, when
combined with our adjusted Q3 year-to-date ongoing earnings per share of $5.87, results in the aforementioned ongoing
earnings per share of $5.73 for the full year.
The Q3 year-to-date ongoing earnings per share was adjusted retrospectively to reflect the removal of selected
adjustments, consistent with full year treatment as shown on slide four. These adjustments did not change our
as-reported results. On an as-reported basis, our earnings per share was $4.81 for the full year, reflecting $0.70 for
charges related to the first phase of our restructuring action, $0.17 for a potential settlement related to the previously
disclosed SEC investigation that has been pending since 2011, as well as $0.11 for costs related to environmental and
litigation settlements. We also received a $0.06 benefit from discontinued operations.
Our free cash flow for the year is $2.1 billion as compared to $959 million in the prior year, primarily reflecting the
absence of the Climate acquisition and the Novozymes transaction in the current fiscal year.
With that brief summary, let me hand it to Hugh to provide the strategic outlook.
Hugh M. Grant
Thanks, Laura, and good morning to everybody on the line.
As we sit at the close of fiscal year 2015, I'm pleased to announce that we grew our ongoing earnings per share in a
downturn in the Ag cycle, more than offsetting the current macro pressures. We approached this period with focus and
discipline centered on our core business. Despite weakening global currencies and commodity prices, we continue to
view this as a time of opportunity, where a balance of innovation and discipline can grow our long-term competitive
position.
There's always the possibility of fluctuations in the short-term market conditions, but that doesn't define the overall
opportunity or the continued long-term growth trends. Innovation is still the differentiator, and you need to look no
further than this year to see how it drives our underlying performance.
At $5.73 of ongoing EPS, we've delivered 10% growth on an ongoing basis and 17% growth on an ongoing currency
neutral basis, driven by the performance of our seed and trait technology, realized licensing opportunities, and our
strong cost discipline. Our strong cash flow and balance sheet allows us to invest in ourselves and new opportunities,
while our core business strength and the momentum in our new growth platforms continue to build, positioning us for
sustainable earnings growth over the long term.
When you narrow the lens to the next 12 months, the industry continues to face a challenging macro environment, and
we've moderated our outlook. Our guidance for fiscal year 2016 of $5.10 to $5.60 of ongoing earnings per share, as
shown on slide five, makes three key assumptions: that currency headwinds persist; grower margins remain
compressed; and the glyphosate pricing pressure continues. We currently estimate ongoing EPS headwinds of $0.35 to
$0.40 from currency, $0.50 to $0.85 from year-over-year Ag productivity pricing declines, and $0.20 to $0.30 from
elevated cost of goods for corn and the planned Xtend launch.
If you set aside these factors, which sum to $1.05 to $1.55 of headwinds, what's clear is that the fundamentals of our
core business are solid. Our germplasm performance has never been better, our trait technologies continue to leap, and
Company Name: Monsanto
Company Ticker: MON US
Date: 2015-10-07
Event Description: Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 16
our market position and pipeline remain strong. However, we fully recognize that these are tough times in agriculture,
and we are committed to continue to drive these advantages in our core business through renewed discipline and focus.
In fiscal year 2016, in addition to continuing to execute with discipline on key milestones in our core business, we plan
to do the following, begin implementation of phased restructuring actions to drive further optimization of our operating
leverage longer term while remaining committed to investing in new growth platforms. The actions from this first
phase are expected to lead to annual savings of $275 million to $300 million, for a total expected cost of approximately
$850 million to $900 million, as shown on slide six.
And with the end of our pursuit to combine with Syngenta, we intend to take the next step in our capital allocation
strategy with a new $3 billion accelerated share repurchase program as we progress towards our targeted capital
structure. We expect to begin the accelerated share repurchase in the near term, with plans to complete it sometime in
the next six months.
These actions are designed to compound our underlying future growth and, when combined with growth in the core
business and the new platforms, continue to underpin our confidence to meet our goal of more than doubling our fiscal
year 2014 ongoing EPS by fiscal year 2019, which begins with an estimated 20%-plus ongoing EPS growth starting in
fiscal year 2017.
The primary drivers of the revised plan, as shown on slide seven, include an expected return to mid-single-digit corn
germplasm mix lift globally and what we see as a modestly improved commodity corn price environment beginning in
fiscal year 2017. We also expect Intacta penetration in roughly three-quarters of the 100 million acre opportunity and
Xtend technology in about two-thirds of the U.S. soybean acres.
The absence of several negatives from this coming year, including elevated corn COGS and the Xtend launch costs, are
expected to further enhance this growth, while genetic glyphosate prices are expected to make a small but steady
recovery over this time. Spend is expected to be moderated by the success of the restructuring actions. And with our
long-term targeted net debt to ongoing EBITDA ratio of 1.5 times, we expect share repurchases to account for a portion
of the planned ongoing EPS growth through fiscal year 2019.
The confidence in our outlook is further underscored by the fundamentals of agriculture, which remain compelling.
Obviously, the current oversupply situation has created continued near-term pressure on commodity prices. But what
are unwavering are the demand curves, as shown on slide eight. Macro demand remains robust. In fact, the world is
consuming the current oversupply at a record pace, with demand for corn growing by an average of 1.3 billion bushels
per year over the past three years. More than 90% of this growth in demand over this timeframe has been driven by
feed and underpinned by middle-class protein consumption, which we expect to continue.
As we look out with conservative assumptions, we continue to plan for annual average demand growth in corn of
approximately 500 million bushels and 200 million to 250 million bushels in soybeans.
With this level of demand and yields at trend line, we expect the global corn supply-to-use ratio to return to a range
supporting the corn commodity price improvements into 2017 and beyond. And if you look at the demand trend line
from the last three years, the world would need to double the annual rate of yield increases to nearly 3%, or two times
our forecasted estimates, to satisfy this demand. With the agricultural area expansion effectively constrained, the
majority of this increase will need to come from yield, and it needs to be delivered in the face of the challenges
presented by climate change, making yield and innovation even more critical as we look forward.
As the innovation leader, we are aligned to these trends and we're accelerating our vision to create value through a truly
integrated ecosystem for agriculture, as shown on slide nine. Our competitive advantage leverages the knowhow that
we've assembled across our industry-leading capabilities in breeding, biotechnology, digital Ag, next-generation
biologicals, and crop protection solutions.
The proposed combination with Syngenta would have been complementary to our vision, but now, we move
confidently forward with our leading position in seeds and digital agriculture to pursue other options to build on our
existing crop protection portfolio and in our partnerships. We have a multipronged approach to our crop protection
Company Name: Monsanto
Company Ticker: MON US
Date: 2015-10-07
Event Description: Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 16
strategy that includes organic growth from products in our pipeline and in our collaborations, as well as growth from
targeted partnerships to access molecules and opportunistic M&A. Longer-term, we expect new layers of growth to
come from VaporGrip formulations of dicamba, our new nematicide and the BioAg Alliance.
Despite near-term industry turbulence, we're at the eve of rapidly expanding opportunities for our company. The
growth drivers in our core business are reaching critical milestones, and the potential value of digital Ag is becoming
ever more tangible. With our current core business opportunities and the step change in progress in our new growth
platforms, today, we preview our line of sight on the next decade of technology upgrades, as shown on slide 10.
As we look out to 2025, we see the opportunity for more than 800 million acres of new technology upgrades. And that's
a commercial opportunity with technologies that are largely in hand in our core platforms alone. We expect to have first
and second generation Intacta upgrades in South America, Xtend penetration across the Americas, a new nematicide,
and technology upgrades across our global corn franchise to drive acreage upgrades.
With our new growth platforms, we expect broad acre adoption of microbials and climate to provide significant upside
potential to these core technology upgrades. We look forward to further building out these key commercial growth
drivers and providing the early yield data proof points at our upcoming November biannual investor event here in St.
Louis.
So while it's easy to get bogged down in the transitory macro factors that are weighing on global agriculture today, if
you take a longer view, you can see that we have the opportunity to lead the next evolution in agriculture, not unlike the
transformation that we lead in biotech and in breeding. Now is the time to be discussing transformative opportunities as
it's precisely in challenging times that strategic advancements, along with key operational discipline, can force the new
growth. So while fully recognizing the current market realities, we are staying focused on near-term execution in our
core business, while at the same time, advancing and expanding our new platforms.
So with that, I'll turn it over to Brett to walk you through the operational milestones and the outlook for next year that
supports these plans. Brett?
Brett D. Begemann
Thanks, Hugh. And good morning to everyone on the line.
As we build our operational plans for 2016, discipline becomes increasingly important. In Ag Productivity, that
discipline is about staying consistent with our strategy to maintain a small premium over generics, and we have
lowered prices accordingly. While this creates a tough comparison versus last year, we expect 2016 to provide a solid
base for the business long-term, with new differentiated formulations from dicamba driving growth from that base over
the coming decade. Slide 11 highlights the core assumptions that support an expected gross profit contribution in the
Ag Productivity segment, ranging from $900 million to $1.1 billion, which remains an important strategic fit with our
Seeds & Traits franchise.
Our discipline also shows up in our continued cost management and the execution of the initial phase of our
restructuring actions. We plan to implement global commercial hubs and will further develop our global R&D center of
excellence in St. Louis, all of which will focus resources and drive efficiencies. We also plan to modernize and
optimize our IT and supply chain networks, and accelerate the use of data and analytics to dramatically improve our
field testing and product development cycle.
Finally, we plan to further streamline and reprioritize some of our commercial, enabling and R&D efforts, which
include the exit of the sugarcane business and streamlining of the Yield-and-Stress program approach. When complete,
we believe these actions will enable us to be more agile, focused and cost effective in delivering on long-term growth
objectives. This discipline will be foundational to our performance in the next era, where success will be driven by
continued innovation, integrated solutions and improved insights our customers seek.
Company Name: Monsanto
Company Ticker: MON US
Date: 2015-10-07
Event Description: Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 16
Let's walk through the milestones in fiscal year 2015 and the key deliverables for 2016 that position us for near-term
rapid growth beginning in fiscal year 2017. Let's start with corn, as shown on slide 12. We have seen the most
significant decline in farmer incomes in a decade. And yet, our corn franchise has been a source of relative stability and
durability as compared to other inputs in the industry. And importantly, our key metrics for customer relationships have
never been better. Near-term, the horsepower of our global corn business centers on our continuous breeding upgrades
to propel pricing and share growth. Even in 2015, we saw farmers continue to migrate to the newer classes of genetics,
delivering a positive global mix lift in local currency.
In the U.S. alone, nearly 40% of our sales were in year one and year two hybrids. Continuing this trend, we expect a
low single-digit germplasm price mix lift in local currency, again in physical year 2016. This considers new hybrids at
a premium, plus small declines we took in some of our mid-tiers in the U.S. corn seed business in order to ensure we're
maintaining a robust lather of offerings in our portfolio. Beyond fiscal year 2016, we expect the commodity prices to
lift to $4.50 plus and this trend, when paired with continued demand for new hybrids, is expected to lead to mid
single-digit lift in corn germplasm mix.
The early estimates on corn acres point to a likely 20% or more decline in Argentina and in the Brazil summer season.
However, we expect the U.S. and Brazil Safrinha corn acres to be up modestly with the U.S. acreage increase coming
at the expense of soybeans acres.
Regarding share, we held or grew share in every major market in 2015 and are seeing significant momentum with our
licensed base in both the U.S. and Brazil, as shown on slide 13. We expect to repeat this share performance in 2016,
and the early read on the U.S. branded corn yield data suggests that we have held or expanded our yield advantage for
the tenth consecutive year.
With the near-term commodity price rebound we expect in 2017, we anticipate significant growth as price, mix, and
share often grow collectively. And as we look out, we expect to refresh the hybrids in our 75 million-acre-plus branded
seed base nearly two times in that next decade. That, along with the continued momentum in global share growth and
new trait upgrade opportunities, is expected to provide roughly 240 million acres of technology corn seed and trait
upgrades over the next decade.
Let's move to soybeans next, where Intacta is setting records with a 15 million-acre penetration this past year and a
target of 30 million acres in just its third year of commercialization, as shown on slide 14. Our order books are
reflecting tremendous demand. In fact, in Brazil, prepays are tracking ahead of forecast and we are receiving great
feedback from our licensed seed partners who, together with our brand, cover approximately 90% of the market. We
did raise our price in Brazil in the mid single-digit range in local currency, partially offsetting some of the currency
headwinds. However, penetration and grower experience remains our primary objective. In addition, our
second-generation Intacta product continues to progress nicely and is expected to launch before the end of the decade in
this 100 million-acre opportunity.
Finally, our point-of-delivery business model is now up and running in northern Argentina, Uruguay, and Paraguay,
unlocking the opportunity for future soybean technologies in the region.
The other near-term blockbuster soybean technology is our Roundup Ready Xtend Crop System, which will enhance
the strength of our current Roundup Ready System with dicamba tolerance. We now see this as a 250 million acre
opportunity across the Americas that extends beyond the soybeans and cotton to encompass corn, given the progress we
see in our pipeline. We expect this technology to ramp even faster than Intacta, and our U.S. teams are gearing up for
the largest technology launch ever, more than 3 million acres of Roundup Ready 2 Xtend soybeans in fiscal year 2016,
as shown on slide 15.
We recently rolled pricing and are now planning for a launch that includes more than 70 unique soybean varieties
across our branded and licensed footprint. Based on the value creation demonstrated, we have priced the new Xtend
varieties at roughly $5 to $10 per acre premium over Roundup Ready 2 Yield varieties. This level of incremental value
creation continues to reinforce Xtend as one of the leading core business growth drivers.
Company Name: Monsanto
Company Ticker: MON US
Date: 2015-10-07
Event Description: Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 16
Given the overwhelming demand from farmers, dealers, and licensees, we have implemented a preorder reservation
process in advance of the final regulatory milestones. And based on current tracking, we expect the seed to be fully
reserved by early December.
We continue to progress with key regulatory agencies in the U.S. and China and have been working closely with our
channel partners in our planning process. While the launch does not create financial value in the first year, it does mark
an important milestone for significant future growth.
On a related note, our Bollgard II XtendFlex cotton is expected to double its 2015 penetration with plans to reach 1.5
million acres in fiscal year 2016.
As a key complement to this system, we continue our planning for the potential dicamba investment at our Luling plant
to ensure that there is sufficient supply in a market that is expected to add 250 million acres of opportunity in the next
decade, as shown on slide 16. Our current expectation is that our investment in the dicamba manufacturing capacity
would ultimately service approximately 25% to 35% of the fully mature market and will provide a double-digit return
on investment from the incremental dicamba sales. Further, our recent investment in dicamba VaporGrip formulation
capacity is expected to allow us to offer easy-to-use proprietary formulations for growers and near-term licensing
opportunities.
Moving to digital Ag, The Climate Corporation has emerged as the digital Ag platform, with leading capabilities and
broad-scale industry partners. In fiscal year 2015, more than 75 million acres were enrolled on the platform and more
than 5 million subscribed to our premium offerings, as shown on slide 17, confirming a step change in product
performance with adoption that exceeded even our aggressive targets.
As we look forward to 2016, we now expect The Climate platform to expand to more than 90 million acres with over
12 million in our paid offerings, as we expand our geographic reach for the premium services by nearly 2.5 times our
fiscal year 2015 acres.
As a testament to the step change in performance, I'm pleased to share a sampling of the results our early adopters
experienced through the use of our premium Climate services as shown on slide 18. Our Nitrogen Advisor is
dramatically changing how our customers manage their nitrogen applications and the results from these on-farm strip
trials clearly show the value of the recommended additional applications from our Advisor. And through advanced
satellite imagery, our Field Health Advisor consistently diagnosed emerging issues in the field, which helps reduce
costs and improve overall productivity on the farm.
As we look at the next decade for digital agriculture, one thing is clear, this platform will change the way farmers
manage their operation, it will change who we are as a company, and it will transform the industry. In fact, we're
targeting expansion of the platform into new crops in the next three to five years, including, but not limited to,
soybeans, wheat and canola. And geographically, we have trials planned for Brazil in 2016 and expect to be in
additional geographies by the end of the decade.
In summary, we are focused on disciplined execution of the key deliverables across our core business to unlock the
growth to our fiscal year 2019 ongoing EPS growth targets and to greater than 800 million acres of core technology
upgrades we see over the course of the next decade. The fundamentals of our business are strong, and we have the
drivers in hand to propel growth over the next decade.
With that, I'll pass it to Pierre to provide the financial outlook.
Pierre C. Courduroux
Thanks, Brett, and good morning to everyone on the line.
Let me start by giving you the highlights of our FY 2015 performance. First, the fundamental drivers of our Core Seeds
and Genomic business are sound and remain a source of durability, generating roughly $250 million in gross profit
growth in fiscal year 2015, excluding our currency headwinds of roughly $250 million, acreage headwinds of $255
Company Name: Monsanto
Company Ticker: MON US
Date: 2015-10-07
Event Description: Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 16
million in corn, cotton, and soybeans, and $100 million of restructuring charges. This performance was driven by our
accelerating soybeans business, by overall positive corn germplasm price/mix benefit in local currency, and by branded
and licensed share footprint expansion.
Second, in Ag Productivity, we stayed true to our glyphosate pricing strategy and effectively unlocked value in our
lawn and garden brand for the Scotts licensing agreements to partially offset nearly $350 million of gross profit
headwinds from generic glyphosate pricing and currency.
Third, our disciplined approach is highlighted by the significant improvement in operating expense leverage, with
ongoing operating expenses down 8% year to year.
Fourth, we've leveraged our strong balance sheet and cash generation, with free cash flow coming in at $2.1 billion, and
made significant progress in our capital allocation strategy. With the successful completion of our $6 billion
accelerated share buyback program, we've repurchased more than 10% of our shares outstanding since June of 2014.
Our share count now stands at 468 million shares, and our net debt to ongoing EBITDA ratio sits at 1.1 times at the
close of the fiscal year. Taken together, the strong underlying business performance amplified by our disciplined
approach and capital allocation strategy drove 17% growth in ongoing currency neutral EPS for the fiscal year.
As we look forward into fiscal year 2016, that same focus on converting core operational strengths into financial
performance through discipline in execution and the continued implementation of our capital allocation strategy
remains a priority. As shown on slide 19, our ongoing earnings guidance range of $5.10 to $5.60 reflects the headwinds
created by the year-over-year decline in foreign currencies and generic glyphosate pricing.
In FY 2016, we anticipate those headwinds to more than offset the benefits from the growth in our Seeds and Genomic
gross profits, from our planned near-term $3 billion accelerated share repurchase program, and from the first phase of
our restructuring actions. Assuming major currency rates remain relatively consistent with today's rate and the ratio of
Brazilian reais to the U.S. dollar remains in the mid to high BRL 3s, we expect a $0.35 to $0.40 currency headwind in
FY 2016.
We anticipate the decline in Ag Productivity pricing to drive another $0.50 to $0.85 of expected headwinds, as we
project the Ag Productivity segment gross profit to be in the range of $900 million to $1.1 billion. This gross profit
projection assumes that generic prices improve some over the course of the year, as we believe competitive pricing will
move to a more sustainable level in the market.
And while the $274 million gross profit benefit we received from the Scotts licensing agreement was a one-time event
in 2015, we do expect to benefit from other licensing and sales arrangements of a similar order of magnitude, likely in
our Seeds and Genomics segments, towards the end of fiscal year 2016. SmartStax PRO and other current and pipeline
products are generating significant interest, and we expect some to culminate in the next year.
So while it's important to clearly outline and plan for the expected macroeconomic challenges, it is even more relevant
to outline the growth drivers in our plans and highlight their expected financial contribution in fiscal year 2016. We are
anticipating mid to high single-digit percentage growth in gross profit from our Core Seeds and Genomics segment
before estimating restructuring charges and including licensing opportunities, and this is a critical milestone to
delivering growth longer term.
In corn, the key growth drivers are expected low single-digit germplasm price/mix lift in local currency, share growth
with some improvement in corn acres, and corn cost savings initiatives. These are expected to more than offset the $90
million to $100 million penalty we expect in corn cost of goods related to our scaled back production plans, driven by
the reduction in corn acres over the past two years.
In soybeans, momentum across the Americas continues to build in the next fiscal year. In South America, Intacta is
expected to double to 30 million acres, but currency dampens the expected gross profit growth as a significant
movement in the Brazilian reais occurred midseason.
We do revisit the key value drivers when setting our price early in the calendar year. However, in the case of Intacta,
our negotiated grow license agreements [audio gap] (32:31 – 32:37).
Company Name: Monsanto
Company Ticker: MON US
Date: 2015-10-07
Event Description: Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 16
In North America, the excitement for the Roundup Ready 2 Xtend launch continues to grow, as we target more than 3
million acres with the new Xtend varieties priced at a $5 to $10 per acre premium. In FY 2016, there are, however,
expected launch costs of $70 million to $80 million that more than offset those revenues. These launch costs include
expense for technology license plus pre-foundation seeds and stewardship costs. These launch costs are expected to
scale down to closer to $15 million by the third year of commercialization, as we move to more historical level of trade
margins.
We anticipate total FY 2016 operating expenses, excluding the estimated restructuring charges, to be up 2% to 4% as
compared to FY 2015 ongoing operating expenses. The $100 million-plus of first-year operating expense savings from
our restructuring actions are not expected to fully offset the increases from inflation and investment in growth
platforms in fiscal 2016. But with some of the benefits of our 2015 disciplined spend management carrying into fiscal
year 2016, total operating expenses, again before estimated restructuring charges, are still expected to be more than
$200 million lower than our FY 2014 ongoing operating expenses.
By the end of FY 2017, we expect the first phase of our restructuring actions to deliver an estimated $275 million to
$300 million savings across our P&L. All-in cost for the first phase of the restructuring action is expected to be
approximately $850 million to $900 million, with about $450 million of those being pre-tax cash costs.
Our supplemental restructuring phase is expected to target an additional $100 million of cost savings by the end of FY
2018. Given that we are still in the early days of developing those actions, the associated costs for the supplemental
phase are not estimable and are not considered in our FY 2016 guidance.
Finally, the anticipated tax rate for the coming year is expected to be in the range of 25% to 27%, and net financing
expense is expected to reflect the increases in interest expense arising from the incremental debt incurred as we move
towards our leverage target.
Within the components of our FY 2016 guidance, today we have announced our plans to advance our capital allocation
strategy with a $3 billion accelerated share buyback program. We expect to fund these repurchases with cash and
short-term borrowings. The execution of our plan should opportunistically take us to a net debt-to-ongoing-EBITDA
ratio in the range of 1.7 times, modestly above our target of 1.5 times at the close of FY 2016, as shown on slide 20.
All together, we expect the net effect of reduced share counts and increased net financing expense to provide a $0.24 to
$0.27 of FY 2016 ongoing earnings per share growth. We remain committed to a balanced capital allocation strategy
balanced between continued share repurchases, dividends, capital investments and investments in technology. This
should allow us to operate with flexibility to invest in high-growth opportunities that support our strategy while
remaining committed to a solid investment-grade credit rating to allow access to commercial paper.
Backing these capital allocation strategies are our ability to convert earnings into strong cash generation. We plan to
generate $1.6 billion to $1.8 billion of free cash flow in fiscal year 2016, with the opportunity to grow this in future
year absent the approximately $200 million to $250 million of after-tax restructuring cash cost we expect to incur in FY
2016. Cash flows from operations are expected to be $2.7 billion to $3.1 billion, while cash flows used for investing
activities are expected to be in the range of $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion, inclusive of the initial potential investment in
dicamba plant.
The final point I'd like to cover is the expected earning flow. Currencies in generic glyphosate prices move primarily
after the first quarter of fiscal year 2015, and when combined with the expected pullback in corn acres in Brazil's
summer and in Argentina, we are anticipating the first quarter ongoing earnings to be down in the range of $0.70 to
$0.80 versus the prior year before considering $0.30 to $0.40 of expected restructuring charge in the first quarter. That
being said, a portion of this decline is expected to be made up in the second half of the year, with the outlook for Q2
earnings expected to be relatively flat with the prior year.
There is no doubt that fiscal year 2016 will be a tough year across the industry, and in this environment, financial
discipline will be critical. However, we remain committed to invest in our business in a disciplined manner to enable
longer-term growth. As CFO, my focus is on financial discipline to support long-term growth and strong translation of
Company Name: Monsanto
Company Ticker: MON US
Date: 2015-10-07
Event Description: Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 16
that growth into free cash that in turn will support future growth investments and return value to our shareowners.
These priorities show up in our financial results for the year and in our future outlook.
Continuing to execute well on these pillars will provide the gateway to the rapid future business growth necessary to
deliver on our plan to more than double our ongoing FY 2014 EPS by 2019 and to deliver a tremendous long-term
opportunity to upgrade core technologies across more than 800 million acres over the course of the next decade with
upside potential from our new growth platforms.
Thanks. And I'll turn it back over to Laura for the Q&A.
Laura J. Meyer
Thanks, Pierre. With that, we'd now like to open the call for questions. In addition to Hugh, Pierre and Brett, we also
have Dr. Rob Fraley, our Chief Technology Officer, joining us for Q&A.
As we typically do, I'll ask that you please hold your questions to one per person so that we can take questions from as
many people as possible. You're always welcome to rejoin the queue for a follow-up.
Kevin, I think we're ready to take questions from the line.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question today is coming from Don Carson from Susquehanna
International Group. Please proceed with your question.
<Q - Don Carson>: Thank you. I guess a question on the outlook for digital agriculture. You talk about Climate Corp.
and others making a meaningful contribution by 2019. How meaningful is that in absolute dollars? And what has been
the gross spend on Climate Corp. and other initiatives both in fiscal 2015 and what you're anticipating in 2016?
<A - Hugh M. Grant>: So, Pierre, maybe a word on our differential spend in our investments.
<A - Pierre C. Courduroux>: Sure. So, Don, when we are talking about meaningful contribution at the GP level, and
that's what we've been sharing, we're talking about several hundred million dollars as an order of magnitude.
Obviously, we'll keep you updated as the years evolve, but that's what we are thinking about and that's what the teams
have been building their plan around.
Concerning the investments in FY 2015 and in FY 2016, in FY 2015, definitely we've continued to invest more than we
did the previous year, but not as much as what we originally planned. That was part of the financial discipline we were
talking about. We've invested in between, I mean, $50 million and $100 million more than the previous year in those
platforms and that's kind of the way we are thinking about it next year when entering into FY 2016. So continuing
definitely to invest, but with a financial discipline and there's obviously a room for adjustments as the business evolves.
<Q - Don Carson>: Okay, thank you.
<A - Hugh M. Grant>: Thanks very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question today is coming from Vincent Andrews from Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with your
question.
Company Name: Monsanto
Company Ticker: MON US
Date: 2015-10-07
Event Description: Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 16
<Q - Vincent Stephen Andrews>: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. A couple of quick ones. On Intacta, the price
when you launched the product included in that contractual agreement that there'd be a stepup automatically in fiscal
2018. Is that the case still? Is there any change there? And is it possible to raise the price above what's in the contract?
<A - Hugh M. Grant>: Vincent, thanks for the question. You'll remember when we launched Intacta, we were
negotiating with growers in Brazil. So this was a function of those negotiations, but broadly a stepup opportunity post
2017.
<A - Brett D. Begemann>: Yeah. So as part of those negotiations, as Hugh was describing, we agreed that increases in
price through 2017 could only be in the range of inflation. So, as we look to post 2017, we'll have the opportunity to
reevaluate the value creation in the marketplace, look at pricing, we won't have the constraint of that limit, and there'll
also be rebates that disappear in that post-2017 timeframe as well.
<Q - Vincent Stephen Andrews>: Right.
<A - Brett D. Begemann>: So that gives us even a greater confidence in Intacta growth and how it starts to drive our
business. And then right behind Intacta, don't forget the importance of Intacta 2 that's coming right along behind that
that allows us another opportunity for demonstrating value in the market and seeing that show up in price.
<Q - Vincent Stephen Andrews>: Could you just clarify on the Seeds & Traits gross profit growth, Pierre, you
mentioned that there were going to be license agreements. Any sort of comparison for the ones in Ag Productivity last
year? So are you expecting license agreements to be of a onetime nature again? Or is this going to be ongoing?
<A - Pierre C. Courduroux>: So, Vincent, those agreements are by nature onetimers, but what you have, I mean, to
remember is over time, I mean our strategy teams have always been working, and that's part of the nature of our
business, to look at those as almost ongoing onetimers because we got, as you know, a number of discussions with our
partners and potential partners around a number of our technology, some of our non-core assets. So this is always what
we've been doing and what we are envisioning to do in the future as well.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question today is coming from Chris Parkinson from Credit Suisse. Please proceed with your
question.
<Q - Christopher S. Parkinson>: Perfect. Thank you. Can you just walk us through the long-term cadence of the
glyphosate gross profit and potentially parse out pricing expectations going forward on FX and also OpEx and really
just how to bridge from the new starting point out of – from the $900 million to $1.1 billion back up significantly to the
$1.3 billion to $1.4 billion? So any color there would be appreciated. Thank you.
<A - Hugh M. Grant>: No, thanks, Chris. I'll maybe ask Pierre to say a few words on our assumptions, but I would
say that a lot of the pricing – as you look at our projections in 2016 and I hope this came through in the prepared
remarks, our pricing moves are already made. So I think we've taken a pretty conservative view. I know everybody's
looking at glyphosate price every day in the Bloomberg screens. So we're not calling the bottom on this, but we've
made – when we give you this projection for 2016 today, we've made, we think, the pricing moves that addresses
opportunity. But maybe a word on cadence and the fact we sell out as well, Pierre.
<A - Pierre C. Courduroux>: So what's important to understand when we're looking at the next five years is although
glyphosate remains a critical part of our portfolio and we're actually expecting some level of rebound in pricing in
glyphosate over the next couple of years, it's not the only driver and it's not, by far, the only driver within the growth
we are projecting in our Ag Productivity segments.
Remember, we will start to enter in dicamba from a commercialization perspective from the chemical side. We have
our APS – so APS. We continue to commercialize third-party chemistries so that's really more – those supporting
chemistries that are going to drive the growth in addition to a small rebound in glyphosate.
Company Name: Monsanto
Company Ticker: MON US
Date: 2015-10-07
Event Description: Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 16
So we've not ranged the glyphosate profile. As Hugh was saying, I mean we wouldn't call necessarily the bottom from
a price perspective, but we are expecting that over time, we'll see some level of rebound in glyphosate pricing. And the
key driver for that is based on our calculation, based on our estimates, right now, most of the China producers would
selling below cost and we don't believe this is sustainable. And it may last for a couple of months still, but we certainly
don't believe this is what drives the rationale.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question today is coming from P.J. Juvekar from Citi. Please proceed with your question.
<Q - P.J. Juvekar>: Yes, hi. Good morning.
<A - Hugh M. Grant>: Good morning.
<Q - P.J. Juvekar>: Given how quickly the situation sort of worsened in Brazil and the ongoing sales in glyphosate,
I'm wondering why do you expect EPS to start growing at 20% starting in 2017. And maybe we're at the bottom when
we begin to grow, but what do you think are the key risks in that scenario?
<A - Hugh M. Grant>: Thanks for the question, P.J. It was very politely put. So, the reason that we feel that 2017 is a
rebound or a slingshot or we get back on to that growth curve, at first blush, it may seem ambitious. If you look at our
growth this year minus currency, we turned in a 17% growth year.
To Brett's point, we grew or held share in every one of our key markets around the world. So when you look at
somewhat anticipated normalization in currency, the drawdown on ending stocks, the velocity in that and then, Pierre,
maybe the three or four big drivers that kind of make up the 20% growth.
<A - Pierre C. Courduroux>: So, P.J., maybe the best way to think about it is when you look at the key driver of this
growth and this rebound in 2017, definitely starting from the assumption that by 2017, we'll see corn pricing get back
to this $4.50 level. And if you look at the futures for December 2016, I mean they look much better than they did a
couple of weeks ago. So this is really something that's driving our thinking.
And on top of that, then you've got a couple of Monsanto-specific drivers. So, first of all, and I think we've been pretty
clear about those, I mean we've had some cost of goods penalties over the last two years based on the production
volumes we've been seeing, based on the Xtend launch costs that we are going to incur this year that are not going to
happen going forward in 2017. So when you look at 2017, about 25% of that growth is really going to be coming from
the absence of those cost of good penalties. So that's the starting building block.
Then you have the core growth, and we are very bullish about Intacta that we see with the potential to grow another 15
million to 20 million acres. We are also very bullish about Xtend. So this year, we'll have 3 million acres launch, which
will be the largest launch we're doing and we see by 2019 the potential for that product to be on more than 50 million
acres. So, if you extrapolate that and try to draw the curves with what we've seen in Intacta and potentially faster, that's
also one of the key drivers of the way we are thinking about soybeans.
And then corn, we have this year to make a couple of adjustments in our pricing. And based on the commodity price
environment, we've been prudent in the way we are pricing. But when you look back – when you look forward, sorry,
into 2017, we definitely see the potential to get back to our mid single-digit pricing increases on our germplasm base,
which by then will be a fairly significant upside.
And then also, you always see the share increases that we've seen. Even in a tough year this year, we're in a position
where based on what we have today, we do believe we've grown or maintained share in all the key markets around the
world. So we also see a very nice momentum there.
So when you look at that and you add the modest growth we're expecting from the veggies and the cotton businesses, I
mean that's why our core business we can see driving growth. And in addition to that, obviously there's the financial
discipline. When we built our plans last year, we were a little more aggressive in how much and how fast we were
Company Name: Monsanto
Company Ticker: MON US
Date: 2015-10-07
Event Description: Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 16
going to invest. We'll be very disciplined about that, and I think the actions we are taking this year in terms of
restructuring are demonstrating that we are committed to be very disciplined in terms of cost.
And of course, there's also we are making a big step today, I think, in terms of capital allocation. We have a $3 billion
buyback, and that's certainly something that will help. And with our target of 1.5 times net debt-to-EBITDA that we've
been laying out, if you lay out on top of the growth of the core business, this is also a driver that will be very helpful
when looking at the EPS growth in the next couple of years.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question today is coming from Steve Byrne from Bank of America. Please proceed with your
question.
<Q - Stephen Byrne>: Out of those 30 million acres of Intacta that you're looking for, what percentage of those would
be third-party seed companies?
<A - Brett D. Begemann>: As you think about Brazil, keep in mind that the Brazilian market has a large supply of
multipliers in the marketplace or call them regional seed companies, and the large multinationals like us and others
have relatively small seed brand position, so it mostly goes through license. So the vast majority of those 30 million
acres will come through the licensed business that we have down there. But the trait obviously is the key driver of the
value there, and that's what we'll reflect in the 30 million acres. All of that trait will, of course, be ours with Intacta. But
the delivery mechanism is basically through licensed seed companies.
<A - Hugh M. Grant>: Which is a great thing because it gives us the accelerative potential and this is much faster.
Your base grows much more quickly than what we see in the U.S., Steve. And the only other thing I would add, I was
down in Brazil and Argentina a few weeks ago. Grower satisfaction is extraordinary. We'll see this again with Xtend,
but when we rolled with the product in Brazil and Argentina, we had enough varieties to satisfy different climactic
zones and different growing conditions. So we feel pretty good about the expansion of this.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question today is coming from Jeff Zekauskas from JPMorgan Chase & Company. Please proceed
with your question.
<Q - Jeffrey J. Zekauskas>: Thanks very much. It looks from your restructuring charge like you're writing down
something by about $450 million, and so I was wondering what you were writing down. The second thing is that of the
2,600 employees that you intend to separate, how does that split between Ag Productivity and Seeds and Genomics?
And then lastly, was Syngenta a one-off opportunity, or is it a strategic priority to build an agricultural chemical
franchise through acquisition?
<A - Hugh M. Grant>: Jeff, well done, you got a three-fer in here. So maybe, Pierre, you can talk for the $450
million, and then...
<A - Pierre C. Courduroux>: So regarding the non-cash items, so what we are looking at is – we've been announcing
that we were exiting our sugarcane business, so we've got a number of write-offs associated with this one. We also
have, as Brett was mentioning also, we are streamlining our Yield-and-Stress program, and we've got some intangible
assets related to that, too. And maybe more importantly, we are also rationalizing some of our manufacturing
operations as part as the plan that Brett laid out, and there are some fixed assets also related to that. So these are the key
ones that we are writing off at this point in time.
<A - Hugh M. Grant>: And then, Brett, a quick word on – I guess I'd partition this, and I'd talk about some of this as
cost and modifying our costs to the realities of a harsh market. But there's a piece of this that's transformation as well,
Brett.
Company Name: Monsanto
Company Ticker: MON US
Date: 2015-10-07
Event Description: Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 16
<A - Brett D. Begemann>: I think that's the important piece in all of this. So specific to your question of how it breaks
out by segment, I think about it two ways. First of all, I remind you that we significantly reduced our investment in Ag
Productivity a number of years ago, and we're benefiting from that tremendously right now as we see the toughness in
the Ag Productivity market and our GP hanging in there compared to historical standards.
The 2,600 employees, as you look across, is really across the company. And the driver of making it across the company
is how we're looking at transforming our company. And I mentioned that the impact of data and data analytics and how
it's going to help us, that cuts across our entire supply chain and how we drive our supply chain. Rob has talked often
about how it changes, how we do our technology work and our breeding and our testing across the company. And this
is an opportunity to take our company to a whole different operating model, thinking about how data and analytics
drives our company. And that in fact drives efficiencies and productivity across the entire corporation. So it doesn't
necessarily break out by segments. It breaks out across the entire company as we leverage that approach across the
company to drive efficiency.
<A - Hugh M. Grant>: And then your last piece of the trilogy, Jeff, was a one-off. So I guess real briefly, we still
believe in the opportunity of integrated solutions. We've got a 400 million acre seed technology footprint. We've seen
time and time again that we can increase revenue and improve grower service by bringing chemistry up onto that
footprint. Syngenta was the best option, but based on their behavior, that's gone. So we'll continue to look at
opportunities.
But near term, and I really want to emphasize this, near term we're going to focus on three things. We're going to focus
on reducing our costs because of the market realities and also because of the transformation opportunities inside the
company. By applying big data inside the company, we think we can take out significant costs. We're going to drive
our core business. I'm very encouraged with the performance this year. It gets masked by lousy foreign exchange, but
we did really well versus competitors in all of our key markets. So we're going to drive our core, and we're going to
complete the next tranche of our buyback. We're going to invest in our own company.
There has been a lot of conversation about Monsanto has pivoted, now you're changing. The core strategy remains the
same. Earlier this year, earlier this calendar year, we pointed to the reality of a tough 2015 and a tough 2016.
Unfortunately, that came to pass. I think you see the performance of our competitors in this environment. I think the
symptomology is there. We continue to see duplication in R&D in the sector. We continue to see the low effectiveness
of R&D with some of our competitors, and we continue to think that consolidation in this space is inevitable.
So we're going to focus on the near term. We're going to drive the near-term performance of our business, but we're
going to keep a wider eye on the horizon and we're going to keep our ears close to the ground because of the market
realities, but you have to work on what you control. And what we control in this time is exactly what Pierre talked
about. We're going to manage the variables that we've got our hands on, and we're going to make this a tighter run
business given how tough the environment is.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question today is coming from Bob Koort from Goldman Sachs. Please proceed with your
question.
<Q - Robert Andrew Koort>: Thank you. I'll try and limit mine to just one topic. Maybe I'll sneak in a Jeff-style multi
question though. On Roundup Ready 2 Xtend, you guys talked but a $5 to $10 per acre charge. And I'm just curious,
how uniform is the value added of that technology? Is it pretty consistent across your grower base or is there going to
be quite a bit of variability in the cost? And then as you think about extending that, no pun intended, across the other
crops, what is the value add for those other crops relative to soybeans? Thanks.
<A - Hugh M. Grant>: So thanks for the question. Brett, maybe on the $5 to $10, and maybe just a little bit of clarity
on that?
Company Name: Monsanto
Company Ticker: MON US
Date: 2015-10-07
Event Description: Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 16
<A - Brett D. Begemann>: I think one of the things that we get so excited about Xtend is because, to your point, Bob,
it fits across the entire soybean business in the U.S., as well as cotton and canola and corn. And as we look at the value
creation, it's relatively consistent across. There's two things that drive that range of $5 to $10. One is the variety that it's
being delivered in and how new that variety is. And it also is driven by the value of that product as we look at a specific
marketplace that we are going to be in.
But I remind you that this time around, we have 70 varieties that we're introducing this product in. So we're going to
have a really broad project launch that really opens up the door for farmers to improve their overall weed control.
When you look at the crops that we're looking at, we already introduced this year, this product in cotton, and we gave a
– or we put a price on it this year of $6 an acre. But I remind you that we rebated that back because we didn't have the
label for the dicamba over-the-top, but the seed itself was approved as an indicator to the cotton farmers that, that
product was coming. But it's a three-way herbicide so they could use glyphosate along with the Roundup Ready, which
really helped them in the cotton market. So that gives you a range of how we're thinking about cotton.
And corn, I would put it in the bucket of too early to call. We've been doing work on corn and we clearly have made
progress. And Rob's team, bringing those products forward, will be looking at that and evaluating that as we get closer
to the market.
<A - Hugh M. Grant>: Thank you. Bob, you said you had another piece to this, Bob, or are you done?
Operator
Our next question today is coming from David Begleiter from Deutsche Bank. Please proceed with your question.
<Q - David I. Begleiter>: Thank you. Hugh, just on the corn or price uplift in corn in 2017, how price – how sensitive
is that price mix to the corn price? And just on U.S. corn share, did you – how much did you grow U.S. corn share in
this growing season?
<A - Hugh M. Grant>: So we haven't put any numbers out in growth yet, but we – because the denominator keeps –
there's arguments there. But we would say in all of our key markets globally, we've held or grew share. And then on
sensitivity, it's sensitive. Our pricing power and our pricing ability is directly linked to that. I think 10 years ago, we
would have argued more about that. But as time has passed and we've gained more experience, that there is a
sensitivity. This period we're in right now, depending on who you believe, farm income at the moment is at the lowest
it's been in the last 10 to 12 years. So it obviously has an impact. And as we've thought about 2016, we've been – two
points. One, growers are still selecting out of our premium Tier 1, Tier 2 hybrids. So technically, the reach for
innovation is still alive and well. Our pricing power and our ability to price for that is modulated, clearly modulated by
that commodity price, absolutely.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question today is coming from Mark Connelly from CLSA. Please proceed with your question.
<Q - Mark W. Connelly>: Thank you. I wonder if you could just give us a sense of the pipeline from Climate Corp.
and Novozymes. Hugh, you mentioned Nitrogen Advisor success, but I'm curious how quickly we're going to see other
things roll out and what crops are looking like they're going to offer the best opportunity in the JV.
<A - Hugh M. Grant>: Mark, thanks for the question. So this is the telephonic invitation to come to the party. So we
look forward to hosting our biannual event here in St. Louis, and we'll have swept up field data by then. So that's the
really attractive thing about our November date, so we'll be in a much better position to give you actual yield data. But
we've got a bunch of – I would guess, the biggest microbial trial program that the world's ever seen that we'll be
reporting on in St. Louis. But I – Rob or Brett, any – I don't want to get ahead of our data, but anything that you could
offer to Mark at this stage before the November meeting?
Company Name: Monsanto
Company Ticker: MON US
Date: 2015-10-07
Event Description: Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 16
<A - Robert T. Fraley>: Sure. So I'm looking forward to November and to the traditional pipeline update in the – on
the first quarter call. As you pointed out, we – the partnership with Novozymes has been incredible. I was just listening
to their presentation yesterday at an event and a lot of excitement. We took several thousand microbial strains to the
field. We're just generating the data, and also, we're continuing to work to expand the registrations on some of the
current products. So the momentum there is very good and the excitement is terrific. At the Farm Progress Show, just a
huge amount of grower interest in the biological products. On the Climate side, I'd just say that the growth dimensions
that were alluded to in the call are threefold.
First of all, we are going to expand geography, so we're looking at testing programs now on expanded geographies in
the U.S., but also in Brazil and key other agricultural markets. We're expanding the crop base so that the easy
extensions, things like the Plant Health Advisor and the Nitrogen Advisor, will have applicability in crops like soybean,
corn and cotton, and that's key. And then finally, we're adding more apps to the Advisor service, and we're continuing
to develop the Precision Planting apps in terms of targeted patterns for optimizing yield and a variety of additional
Advisors on everything from other nutrients to further use of the satellite-based data. So those are all things that we'll
roll out in more detail in November.
<A - Hugh M. Grant>: Thanks, Rob. Thank you.
<A - Laura J. Meyer>: All right. Kevin, let's just take one more.
Operator
Okay, so we'll take one more question, yes. Our next question today is coming from Sandy Klugman from Vertical
Research Partners. Please proceed with your question.
<Q - Sandy H. Klugman>: I was hoping you could provide an update on the anticipated timeline for Chinese import
approvals for Xtend, as well as approval for over-the-top applications for dicamba in the U.S. And then if I remember
correctly, early engineering work for the Luling dicamba expansion has been approved, but what would be the timeline
for the expansion to receive the full go-ahead?
<A - Hugh M. Grant>: Thanks for those questions, Sandy. So I think encouraging news – well, headline news coming
out of the – at President Obama's meeting with Premier Xi, where this topic between the two cabinet teams, this topic
was discussed in terms of acceleration, harmonization and improving the data sharing. So I think it's never done – it's
done, but I think encouraging news there. And then the – so that covers the – so nothing definitive, but there's a handful
of products waiting on that Chinese approval, and I think it sounded like good discussions. And then on the EPA side,
we continue here, it's progressing through that process. But I don't know if – so that's – I guess that's about all we can
say on that at the moment. On Luling, we've – we said this is a three-year to five-year process, Pierre, and we've kind of
nodded to the back end of that time. Anything you'd add in terms of phasing or timing?
<A - Pierre C. Courduroux>: No. As you mentioned, at this point in time, I mean, we are going through the
engineering work. So as Hugh was mentioning, out of the three years to five years we've been talking about regarding
this investment, I mean, the lion's share of the investment would be later in the three years to five years, for sure.
<A - Hugh M. Grant>: And we see that as necessary, priming the pump. It's going to be an absolutely huge product,
so we need to get ready to prime the pump. And I would anticipate we'll see European, Chinese and Indian
manufacturers following with the size of that product. Rob, you...
<A - Robert T. Fraley>: I just wanted to add, the feedback from farm progress and all the trials this year, the
enthusiasm for the Xtend technology, both in cotton and soybean, and anticipating what it will do in corn and wheat
and other crops, has been at a high level. I mean, in many ways, it kind of reminds me of the launch of the original
Roundup Ready technology back in 1996, I think, in terms of the breakthrough that it represents for farmers in terms of
simplifying weed control and giving them just an incredible tool. So lots of momentum there.
<A - Hugh M. Grant>: And we'll share some of that data at the November event as well.
Company Name: Monsanto
Company Ticker: MON US
Date: 2015-10-07
Event Description: Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Page 16 of 16
Hugh M. Grant
So let me conclude. I want to respect your time. We've run a little bit over, but we did have a lot to cover today. It's not
often that we talk about 2015, 2016 and 2017, and then nod towards 2019 and 2025. So we covered a lot of ground. Let
me just try and summarize this. I think despite weakening global currency and commodity prices, we do continue to
view this as a time of opportunity for the business. But you need the balance of innovation and discipline that can grow
our long-term competitive position.
Our hope today, you sense that we approach this period with focus and cost discipline centered on our core business
and our capital allocation strategy, and this will remain our focus. Our strategy, as always, is grounded in the
foundation of our leading seed technologies and our crop protection solutions. And this, in the future, is to be ever more
fully integrated by the extraordinary potential of digital agriculture. And we will continue to look beyond the transitory
micro factors, and I think they are transitory, to the longer-term opportunities to lead this evolution to integrated
solutions in agriculture.
So we, as a team, are looking forward to seeing many of you at our upcoming biannual investor event in November 17
and 18 here in St. Louis. We'll be able to share more insights on both our near-term and longer-term growth drivers that
we believe will fuel this continued evolution in the remarkable agricultural sector.
So thanks very much for your support and your time this morning, and we look forward to seeing many of you in St.
Louis. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. That does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a
wonderful day. We thank you for your participation today.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.