Company Name: H.J. Heinz
Company Ticker: HNZ US
Date: 2015-03-13
Event Description: Q4 2014 Earnings Call
Market Cap: N.A.
Current PX: N.A.
YTD Change($): N.A.
YTD Change(%): N.A.
Bloomberg Estimates - EPS
Current Quarter: 1.045
Current Year: 3.805
Bloomberg Estimates - Sales
Current Quarter: 3053.250
Current Year: 12111.667
Page 1 of 2
Q4 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Paulo Luiz Araújo Basílio
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good afternoon. My name is Valerie, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to
welcome everyone to the H.J. Heinz Company Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call. This call is being recorded at
the request of H.J. Heinz Company.
Today's presentation includes forward-looking statements as defined in the U.S. securities laws, which are based on
current expectations, subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances and which are not a guarantee of future
performance. Actual results may differ materially due to a variety of factors, including the risk factors listed in Heinz's
2014 Form 10-K, which was filed earlier today. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking
statement, except as required by law.
Today's remarks will also include non-GAAP financial measures, which are reconciled to GAAP numbers in the 2014
Form 10-K. These and other SEC filings are available on Heinz's website.
I would now like to turn the call over to Paulo Basílio, Executive Vice President and CFO. Mr. Basílio, you may begin
your conference.
Paulo Luiz Araújo Basílio
Thank you for joining to review Heinz's results for the calendar 2014. As in previous calls, I will focus my remarks on
comparing our 2014 results to the combined predecessor and successor periods of 2013. Because 2013 had 53 weeks,
there is one fewer week in our 2014 results.
Sales were $10.9 billion in 2014, down 4.6% from prior year. Volume decreased 5.3% or 3.9% excluding the extra
week of 2013. This was due to the U.S. frozen nutritional meals category softness and meals and snacks share losses,
due in part to midyear customer service disruptions from our U.S. systems implementation, along with reduced trade
promotions in the U.S. Foodservice, raw material and packaging supply constraints in Venezuela, and global product
rationalization of lower-margin items. Net pricing, including price increase in the U.S., Venezuela, Indonesia, China
and India, favorably impacted sales by 2.9%. Unfavorable foreign exchange reduced sales by 2%, while divestitures
had a small negative impact of 0.2%.
Adjusted EBITDA increased by nearly 35%, reflecting higher gross margin and lower SG&A costs across each of our
five operating segments. This was primarily driven by efficiencies from our productivity initiatives and strong ZBB
cost control.
I will now briefly cover the full-year results of each of our reporting segments. Starting with North America, 2014 sales
were 6.3% below last year. Volume decreased by 7.1%, including a 1.8% negative impact from last year's 53rd week.
This was the result of category softness and share losses in our U.S. frozen nutritional meals and product rationalization
in the U.S. Consumer Products, midyear systems implementation issues, and our decision to reduce trade promotions in
U.S. Foodservice and Canada. Net price was 1.8% favorable, reflecting price increases in U.S. Consumer Products, as
well as the reduced trade promotions I just mentioned. Canadian foreign exchange reduced sales by 1%.
Company Name: H.J. Heinz
Company Ticker: HNZ US
Date: 2015-03-13
Event Description: Q4 2014 Earnings Call
Market Cap: N.A.
Current PX: N.A.
YTD Change($): N.A.
YTD Change(%): N.A.
Bloomberg Estimates - EPS
Current Quarter: 1.045
Current Year: 3.805
Bloomberg Estimates - Sales
Current Quarter: 3053.250
Current Year: 12111.667
Page 2 of 2
North America's adjusted EBITDA grew by 17%. In 2014, we achieved record market shares in ketchup in U.S. and
Canada, aided by the It Has to be Heinz advertising campaign that debuted during the 2014 Super Bowl.
Turning to Europe, full year sales decreased by 1.7%. Volume was down 3.7%, including 1.2% unfavorable impact
from last year's 53rd week, primarily due to product rationalization, along with soft soup and frozen meals category
sales in UK and infant food in Italy. Net pricing was flat, while divestitures decreased sales by 0.6%. Favorable foreign
exchange rates increased sales by 2.6%. Europe's adjusted EBITDA increased by 40%. We achieved excellent ketchup
sales in UK in several other European countries in 2014, while introducing strong slate of sauces innovation across
Europe.
Moving to APAC, 2014 sales decreased by 9.6%. Volume decreased by 5.8% including 1.2% negative impact from last
year's 53rd week. This was the result of product rationalizations and reduced promotional activity in Australia, along
with the transition to our new distributor model in Indonesia. Net price increased by 2% while unfavorable foreign
exchange rates decreased as sales by 5.8%.
Asia-Pacific's adjusted EBITDA grew 29%. In 2014, Heinz opened a new infant cereal factory in China, our largest in
the world, underscoring our commitment to this important and category. In Latin America, full year sales increased by
3.6% on price increase primarily from Venezuela. Volume decreased by 10.6% including our 1.2% unfavorable impact
from last year's 53rd week, primarily due to supply chain constraints in Venezuela. Unfavorable foreign exchange
decreased sales by 4.9%. Latin America's adjusted EBITDA increased by 84%. Only two years ago, we brought Heinz
ketchup manufacturing to Brazil. In 2014, Heinz became the most preferred ketchup brand in Brazil, surpassing
long-time competitors.
Finally, in RIMEA, sales increased by 0.5%. Volume expanded by 7.1%, more than overcoming the 1.4% negative
impact of last year's 53rd week. This strong growth was driven by baby food in Russia and ketchup, condiments and
sauces in Africa, the Middle East and Turkey. Pricing increased sales by 4.4%, primarily in India and Russia. However,
unfavorable foreign exchange rates decreased sales by 11%.
RIMEA's adjusted EBITDA grew 38%. In 2014, Heinz achieved record market shares for baby food in Russia,
Glucon-D in India, ketchup and mayonnaise in the Middle East and Egypt, and sauces in South Africa. We also
re-launched our Complan nutritional beverages business in India to appeal to a broader age group.
Next, I'd like to highlight our 2014 cash flow performance. We delivered cash flow from operations of $2.1 billion,
three times the amount we delivered last year. We are pleased with the solid results and transformational progress that
Heinz's global workforce delivered in 2014. We are establishing the foundation for our future to be the best food
company, growing a better world.
Thank you and have a great weekend.
Operator
Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.