Company Name: U.S. Bancorp
Company Ticker: USB US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 15
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Sean O'Connor
• Richard K. Davis
• Kathy Ashcraft Rogers
• Andrew J. Cecere
• P. W. Parker
Other Participants
• Jon G. Arfstrom
• John E. McDonald
• Paul J. Miller
• Kenneth M. Usdin
• William Carcache
• John Pancari
• Vivek Juneja
• Chris M. Mutascio
• Nancy Avans Bush
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Welcome to U.S. Bancorp's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. Following a review of the results by
Richard Davis, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer; and Kathy Rogers, U.S. Bancorp's Vice Chairman
and Chief Financial Officer, there will be a formal question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]
This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately noon Eastern Daylight Time
through Wednesday, October 22, at 12 midnight Eastern Daylight Time.
I will now turn the conference over to Sean O'Connor, Director of Investor Relations for U.S. Bancorp.
Sean O'Connor
Thank you, Melissa, and good morning to everyone who has joined our call. Richard Davis, Kathy Rogers, Andy
Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today to review U.S. Bancorp's third quarter 2015 results and answer your
questions. Richard and Kathy will be referencing the slide presentation during their prepared remarks. A copy of the
slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental annual schedules are available on our website at
usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during today's call are subject to risk and
uncertainty. Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on page two of
today's presentation, in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Company Name: U.S. Bancorp
Company Ticker: USB US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 15
Richard K. Davis
Thank you, Sean, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call. I will begin our review of U.S. Bank's
results with a summary of the quarter's highlights on page 3 of the presentation. U.S. Bancorp reported net income of
$1.5 billion for the third quarter of 2015; a record $0.81 per diluted common share, a 3.8% increase year-over-year. I
was particularly pleased this quarter by the continued momentum in our payments business, specifically our retail card
and merchant processing services, the stabilization of our net interest margin and the return of a linked quarter loan
growth to our typical range of 1% to 1.5%.
During the quarter, we returned our student loan portfolio from held for sale to held for investment, subsequent to
recognizing a market adjustment on the portfolio related to disruption in the student loan market. Excluding these
student loan balances, total average loans grew 1.3% on a linked quarter basis.
In addition, we continued to experience strong growth in total average deposits, which included consumer net new
account growth of 3.1%. Credit quality continues to remain strong. Total net charge-offs and total non-performing
assets both declined on a year-over-year basis and on a linked quarter basis. And finally, our capital position remains
solid. We continued to generate significant capital this quarter and were able to return 80% of our earnings to
shareholders in the third quarter through a combination of our dividend and repurchase of 16 million shares of common
stock.
Slide four provides you with a five quarter history of our performance metrics, and they remain among the best in the
industry. Return on average assets in the third quarter was 1.44% and return on average common equity was 14.1%.
Moving over to the graph on the right, you can see that this quarter's net interest margin of 3.04% was essentially flat
with the previous quarter margin of 3.03%, as expected. This reversed a declining trend in linked quarter margin that
has occurred over the past several quarters and was principally driven by a shift in the mix of our loan portfolio.
Our efficiency ratio for the third quarter was 53.9%. We expect this ratio to remain in the low 50%-s going forward as
we continue to manage expenses in a challenging economic environment. During the third quarter we expanded our
prudent FTE management focus and introduced a renewed emphasis on other discretionary spending. We anticipate our
efforts related to these initiatives will begin to reflect positive momentum as we move through quarter four and into
2016.
While we anticipate our non-interest expense will be higher on a year-over-year basis in quarter four, we expect the
increase will be lower than the year-over-year increase reported in the last several quarters as a result of our actions we
are taking to reduce discretionary spending, using technology to reduce certain traditional expenses and focusing our
spending on more productive activities. This is being accomplished through FTE actions as well as programs that will
reduce travel costs by effectively using video and teleconferencing, increasing our use of air fare and hotel discounts
and eliminating most discretionary travel.
We are also expanding the use of electronic communications internally and with our customers to reduce spending in
printing and postage. Additionally, we began to evaluate professional service and contract labor arrangements and we
expect to see improved efficiencies as resources are more appropriately allocated. We'll continue to leverage this
efficiency effort to drive further opportunities for more prudent and efficient spending as we move through 2016.
While prudent expense management remains a priority for our company, we also continue to focus on revenue growth,
which includes investing in businesses and products that will yield a high level of return. This philosophy is, and has
been, a strength on how we manage our company, and this focus will continue going forward.
Moving on to slide five, I wanted to highlight some notable impacts to our earnings. The third quarter of 2015 included
several previously disclosed unrelated items that, combined, were relatively neutral to earnings. Specifically, the
company recognized a gain from the sale of Visa Class B common stock of approximately $135 million. This was
partially offset by a $58 million market valuation adjustment to write down the value of our student loan portfolio that
was previously held for sale. The quarter also included approximately $60 million of elevated expenses due to the
mortgage-related compliance and the company-wide talent upgrade.
Company Name: U.S. Bancorp
Company Ticker: USB US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 15
Turning to slide six, the company reported total net revenue in the third quarter of $5.1 billion, a 1.6% increase from
the prior year, excluding the impact of this quarter's Visa sale and the student loan market adjustment. The revenue
momentum we are seeing is primarily due to our growing balance sheet and growth in a number of our fee-related
businesses, including payments.
Kathy will now give you a few more details about our third quarter results.
Kathy Ashcraft Rogers
Thanks, Richard. Average loan and deposit growth is summarized on slide seven. Average total loans outstanding
increased by over $9 billion or 3.8% year-over-year and 1.3% linked quarter, excluding student loan. Again this
quarter, the increase in average loans outstanding on a year-over-year basis was led by strong growth in average total
commercial loans of 9.5%. Total average revolving commercial and commercial real estate commitments continue to
grow at a fast pace, increasing year-over-year by 8.9%. Line utilization remained similar to the previous quarter.
On a linked quarter basis, consumer loans have begun to grow at a pace stronger than wholesale loans, driven by
growth in our residential mortgage portfolio and continued strength in our home equity and auto lending businesses.
This mix of loan growth is a key factor in the stabilization of our net interest margin.
Residential mortgages were relatively flat year-over-year and increased 1.4% on a linked quarter basis, reversing a
declining trend recognized over the previous quarters. Average credit card loans increased 1.1% year-over-year and
were up 1.9% on a linked quarter basis. Total other retail loans grew 5.6% year-over-year and 1.9% over the prior
quarter, excluding the student loan. The increase was mainly driven by steady growth in auto loans and continued
positive momentum in home equity loans, which grew 0.8% linked quarter. We would expect loan growth to continue
in the 1% to 1.5% range in quarter four.
Total average deposits increased almost $19 billion or 6.9% over the same quarter of last year and 1.4% over the
previous quarter. Growth in non-interest bearing and low cost interest checking, money market and saving deposits was
particularly strong on a year-over-year basis, offsetting the runoff of maturing large dollar time deposits.
Turning to slide eight and credit quality; total net charge-offs declined 1.4% on a linked quarter basis and 13.1% on a
year-over-year basis. The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding was 46 basis points in the third quarter.
Non-performing assets decreased by 0.6% on a linked quarter basis and 18.5% from the third quarter of 2014. During
the third quarter, we released $10 million of reserves compared to $25 million in the third quarter of 2014 and $15
million in the second quarter of 2015.
Given the mix and quality of our portfolio, we currently expect total non-performing assets to remain relatively stable
in the fourth quarter of 2015 and the level of net charge-offs to increase modestly in the fourth quarter of 2015,
principally due to the expectation of a lower level of recoveries.
Slide nine gives you a view of our third quarter 2015 results versus comparable time period. As mentioned, our diluted
EPS of $0.81 was 3.8% higher than the third quarter of 2014 and 1.3% higher than the prior quarter. The $18 million or
1.2% increase in net income year-over-year was principally due to higher net interest income and non-interest income
offset by higher non-interest expense. On a linked quarter basis, net income was higher by $6 million or 0.4% mainly
due to increases in net interest income and non-interest income, partially offset by higher non-interest expense.
Turning to slide 10, net interest income increased year-over-year by $73 million, or 2.7%. The increase was a result of
growth in average earning assets of 6.6%, partially offset by a lower net interest margin. The net interest margin of
3.04% was 12 basis points lower than the third quarter of 2014. The decline was principally due to a change in loan
portfolio mix, as well as growth in the investment portfolio at lower average rates and lower reinvestment rates on
investment securities.
Net interest income increased $51 million on a linked quarter basis, primarily due to higher average total loans and an
additional day in the quarter. The net interest margin of 3.04% was one-basis point higher than the second quarter. The
Company Name: U.S. Bancorp
Company Ticker: USB US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 15
increase in net interest margin was principally due to growth in earning assets, including a shift in loan mix weighted
more to consumer loan and continued deposit growth, partially offset by an increase in lower rate investment securities,
along with lower reinvestment portfolio rates. We currently expect that the net interest margin will be relatively stable
in the fourth quarter.
Slide 11 highlights non-interest income, which increased $84 million or 3.7% year-over-year. The year-over-year
increase in non-interest income was primarily due to the third quarter 2015 Visa gain of approximately $135 million,
partially offset by the $58 million student loan market value adjustment. The remaining increase in non-interest income
was principally due to higher commercial products revenue, trust and investment management fees, credit and debit
card revenues and merchant processing services. Partially offsetting these favorable variances was a $36 million
decrease in mortgage banking revenue, primarily due to an unfavorable change in evaluation of mortgage servicing
rights net of hedging activity.
Momentum in our payments business was reflected in our third quarter results. Credit and debit card fees grew 7.2% on
a year-over-year basis, principally driven by higher volume compared to 2.7% growth year-over-year in the second
quarter. We would expect that credit card fees in quarter four will continue to grow in line with volume.
Merchant processing revenue increased 3.4% year-over-year, 8.5% excluding the impact of foreign currency rate
changes. This increase compares to a year-over-year growth of 7.6% in quarter two. The growth was driven by higher
transaction volumes, account growth, and equipment sales to merchants related to new chip card technology
requirements. We would expect that quarter four year-over-year growth in merchant fees would be modestly lower than
the growth recognized in quarter three, as equipment sales related to the new chip card technology requirements will
begin to slow.
On a linked quarter basis, non-interest income was higher by $54 million or 2.4%, principally due to higher other
income and commercial products revenue, as well as seasonally higher corporate payment products revenue and deposit
service charges, partially offset by lower mortgage banking revenue. We currently expect mortgage fees to be down 5%
to 15% on a linked quarter basis in quarter four, due to typical seasonality. It is very early in the quarter and we'll
update guidance as the quarter progresses. The other income increase was due to higher equity gains including the Visa
gain, offset by student loan, market adjustment, and lower trading gains.
Moving to slide 12, non-interest expense increased year-over-year by $161 million or 6.2%. The increase was mainly
due to higher compensation expense, reflecting the impact of merit increases and higher staffing for risk and
compliance activities, higher employee benefits expense, mainly due to higher pension costs, and higher marketing and
business development expense.
On a linked quarter basis, non-interest expense increased by $93 million, or 3.5%. As expected, linked quarter expense
increased due to the seasonal lift in tax credit amortization, included in other expense, and an increase in expense
related to the quarter two partner reimbursement that did not repeat in quarter three, which are principally reflected in
printing and supplies expense.
The remaining increase was primarily due to increases in other expense related to mortgage servicing and talent
upgrade costs and compensation expense, principally reflecting the impact of an additional day in the quarter and
increases in variable compensation.
As we look to quarter four, we do expect an increase in linked non-interest expense, as seasonally higher tax credit
amortization will be partially offset by a reduction in expense related to the elevated mortgage servicing and talent
upgrade costs that were included in quarter three expense. The normal seasonal increase in tax credit amortization
expense is expected to be in the range of $65 million to $75 million, slightly higher than trends observed in the same
period of last year.
Turning to slide 13, as Richard mentioned, our capital position remained strong. We returned 80% of our earnings to
shareholders, dividends accounted for 32%, while stock repurchases accounted for the remaining 48%. Our common
equity tier 1 capital ratio, estimated using the Basel III standardized approach, as is fully implemented at September 30,
was 9.2%. At 9.2% we are well above the 7% Basel III minimum requirement. Our tangible book value per share rose
Company Name: U.S. Bancorp
Company Ticker: USB US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 15
to $17.20 at September 30, representing a 9.8% increase over the same quarter of last year and a 2.4% increase over the
prior quarter.
I will now turn the call back to Richard.
Richard K. Davis
Thank you, Kathy. I'm very proud of our third quarter results. We reported record EPS, maintained our industry-leading
performance measures, and reported a 19% return on tangible common equity in the quarter. We are operating from a
position of strength as we grow revenue, as we manage expenses, as we seek to exceed customer expectations, and as
we create value for our shareholders in a demanding marketplace.
As we head into the final quarter of the year, we remain focused on delivering consistent, predictable, and repeatable
financial results for the benefit of our customers, our employees, our communities and our shareholders.
That concludes our formal remarks. Andy, Kathy, Bill and I would now be happy to answer your questions. Melissa?
Q&A
Operator
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Jon Arfstrom with RBC Capital Markets.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Good morning, Jon.
<Q - Jon G. Arfstrom>: Thanks, Good morning. Richard, just a question for you; just to take your temperature on
loan growth and how you are feeling about the outlook. You are right down the middle this quarter. Just wondering if
there is anything out there that makes you any more or less optimistic as you look to Q4 and to 2016 in terms of loan
growth?
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Thanks, Jon. I would say just more of the same, which is not pessimistic but it's not uber
optimistic either. I mean, we are seeing a nice transition to consumers getting more steady in their spending patterns. I
think we will see a nice seasonal lift in credit cards in the fourth quarter. Auto loans, as you know, remain strong. Our
bank has been benefited by a strong home equity growth portfolio and not having some of the runoff that other
portfolios have had.
So, you will continue to see, I think, all cylinders on consumer growth. And that will be a nice challenge to, probably,
an equal growth we'll continue to see in C&I [audio gap] (17:45) as well as small business. So what you saw this
quarter is probably the optimal we will see for a while, which is a nice 1% to 1.5% linked quarter. Probably even on
both commercial and wholesale, which gives us a nice blend for the margin. I would say the competitiveness on the
rates are pretty steady. We are not seeing an undue amount of pressure, except in the middle market. C&I space,
everything else seems to be managing itself pretty well.
You'll notice the one area that we're not growing right now is CRE. I mentioned this the last time we talked that it's an
area that we think has some undue risk in it. It's a pretty overheated market, not just certain locations, but the tenors and
the terms and the recourse, non-recourse decisions that some banks are making, and we are not going to participate in
that. So, don't be disappointed if you don't see commercial real estate grow a great deal. We will probably hold our own
and keep our market share. But that's an area we're going to keep a particularly close eye on.
And then, finally, on areas of real opportunity, the small business category still looks good, especially under the
$350,000 level. Real small businesses, feeling that they've got some real value now or some real cash flow, either from
their own personal circumstances or from their own business. And we are starting to see a higher percentage of take-up
on that, both SBA and traditional small business. And I think our market share continues to reflect the growth in the
last couple of quarters.
Company Name: U.S. Bancorp
Company Ticker: USB US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 15
So a lot more of the same. The catalyst, I think, as I've said before, will be the real movement in interest rates, the first
move or impact which I think will trigger quite an impact on the C&I and the larger company space where they'll want
to not miss the opportunity to get – lock in rates before they start moving up, at no matter what speed. But until then,
it's just kind of more of what you see, and we'll gut it out in the marketplace with prime-only quality loans at a pricing
advantage that I think we'll continue to be able to benefit from.
<Q - Jon G. Arfstrom>: Okay. That's helpful. And then just to follow up on what you just said, this is the first time we
have seen loan yields relatively flat and earning asset yields relatively flat. How are you feeling about just pricing in the
competitive environment?
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Andy, why don't you give him that?
<A - Andrew J. Cecere>: I think, as Richard mentioned, in the large corporate space, I would say pricing is relatively
stable. Middle market can be aggressive because fewer competitors can make a difference there. In the other area on
the retail side of the equation is auto lending continues to be fairly competitive in terms of pricing. Other than those
categories, relatively stable.
<Q - Jon G. Arfstrom>: Okay, great. Thanks for the help.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Thanks, Jon.
<A - Andrew J. Cecere>: Okay.
Operator
Next, we have John McDonald with Bernstein.
<Q - John E. McDonald>: Good morning. Was wondering on the expense side, Richard, is there any way to size the
potential opportunity from the increased focus on the non-FTE expense?
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Yes. Gee, it got to question two. Listen, first of all, we are going to be very careful on not
cutting where we shouldn't; and we are still a long-term company, so we are not going to make big mistakes here and
over-manage this. But I will tell you that this discretionary addition to our otherwise prudent FTE impacts is going to
start showing itself for the first time in quarter four, and we're going to get about a range of $10 million to $15 million
benefit that we wouldn't have had, had we not started this effort.
2016, we're in the middle of the planning process, so it will obviously be more than that, but it is going to be
thoughtful. And I think you all know that we are giving you our efforts to get back to positive operating leverage on an
annual basis. And as we look into plan next year, that's our goal is to make it a positive operating leverage. But at the
same token, I don't want to starve the future and find out that we over managed something and got this company back
to, really, where it was 10 years ago where we were just investing.
So we're going to be thoughtful about it, but it's got real impact, but not huge, in quarter four and then we will have a
better idea to give you a sense later this quarter as we look to 2016 and see what kind of impacts the cumulative effects
of all that can be. But I assure you, we're going to continue to invest in places we need to; and where the ROI is good, I
don't see an expense. I see an investment and we will continue to be thoughtful in that distinction.
<Q - John E. McDonald>: So, don't want to box you into a corner too early on next year, but just want to kind of get a
sense of your conviction level on the ability to deliver the positive operating leverage without rates. Back in September
at the conference, you kind of said, "hey, now I don't care." Is it something you feel like pretty good about being able to
deliver, or really going to depend a lot on the environment still?
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Yes. And what I said was I care less, not "I don't care."
<Q - John E. McDonald>: Okay.
Company Name: U.S. Bancorp
Company Ticker: USB US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 15
<A - Richard K. Davis>: I do care. The fact is we are going to put into our plan and expectation for very, very nominal
number and size of rate increases, which – much less than we have had in the years past. So nominal that it's very
small. To the extent that that occurs, in case nothing happens, we will struggle to get positive operating leverage. To the
extent that anything happens, we're going to build a plan to get it very close to that so that we can approximate revenue
growth and expense growth to be somewhere near the same, where revenue slightly outpaces it.
If there is a reasonable amount of increases or sooner than later, then we will have a much bigger opportunity to
provide much more positive operating leverage; but we are building it to be right at the line so that we can deliver back
to what we committed, start growing the bank that way again, and then any benefits we get will be a bonus. But we do
need one or two, John, over the next 15 months, but we don't need much more than that. We don't need them all right
now, and they don't need to be big.
<Q - John E. McDonald>: Okay. And then just on the idea of if rates stay low, revenue environment stays
challenging, does the idea of bank acquisitions get more attractive for you, Richard, and could you just elaborate on
what you said about kind of statute of limitations and kind of legal risks as a barrier to your doing deals?
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Yes. Good memory. I told you that I think the statute in our head kind of ends in 2017, so I
don't think 2016 is going to be a year where you will see us jumping into big bank deals or big branch deals; but we do
love the non-capital businesses of fees and trusts, and you saw a recent acquisition we made of the Auto Club card
portfolio. There are more where that came from, John, and those are very attractive deals. They're bolt-on. They're low
capital. But for the provision you need to put in front of them and the small conversion costs, it's a good way to grow
the balance sheet and we will continue to see opportunities there.
So I think 2016 looks like the tail end of the last four years or five years, and then 2017 probably becomes the time we
will start looking at more traditional bank deals. And frankly, we don't really feel we need them right now. Our deposit
growth is steady. Our customer growth patterns are steady. Our relationships are getting deeper, and we've always said
we want to double down where we are more than grow where we aren't. And, so far, that's working for us. And I don't
feel like we are starved at all by not being able to do that.
<Q - John E. McDonald>: Are there other things that you need to get set, in terms of – before you can do deals, in
terms of regulatory checklist and things like that?
<A - Richard K. Davis>: I don't think we – we don't think there is an environment where that is going to necessarily
impair our interest. I think we have to watch for the trailing risk that I mentioned before, especially inheriting a
problem that you didn't create yourself. And you also want to spend time making sure that everything you have in your
house is in good order. But I don't see anything new on the horizon or any new information that would change our
appetite.
<Q - John E. McDonald>: Great, thank you,
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Okay.
Operator
We have Paul Miller with FBR.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Hi, Paul.
<Q - Paul J. Miller>: Yes, where are you at on – I know on acquisitions – what do you see out there? Are things
loosening up a little bit on some of the improvement? And what type of size do you think you can go after at this point?
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Paul, I don't know that they are any more attractive than they have been in the last few years.
I think there are certain boards sitting around board rooms saying at smaller sizes are we going to make it at this level?
Can we afford with our scale to be profitable? That might change a little bit, but we are not seeing an intensely different
environment than we've seen in the last, say, eight quarters. Not more players, not higher quality players, not more
Company Name: U.S. Bancorp
Company Ticker: USB US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 15
desperate players. And our attraction – our interest is low.
So, maybe that's because we are saying we are not interested, we are not getting a lot of bites, but we are not denying
anything that we think is too good to pass. And I actually don't think – I'm not attracted to other banks right now. I just,
for all of the reasons I have mentioned to you before, and just the shear positioning in this moment in time, it's enough
to carry your entire balance sheet across the goal line when interest rates are low and deposits don't have value, but
they're going to be valuable one day again and you're going to be glad you have all of those deposit gathering in places.
We have 3,186 right now. That's probably quite enough for us. So, we are not seeing an attraction on our part and no
one is coming after us with a different or better story.
<Q - Paul J. Miller>: Are you seeing any communities or some of the smaller areas struggling with the low oil prices,
especially in some of the areas you are in with – I can't get it out, the – yes, the fracking. I couldn't get it out. Yes.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Yes. There are markets that we have business, like Lewiston and Williston and those parts of
The Dakotas, which is like the old gold rush. The things start slowing down. The town moves downstream. We don't do
much business there anyway. We didn't set up any locations; we didn't create an infrastructure, because we didn't think
it was sustainable. And for the most part becoming mostly a Midwest and West Coast company, we are outside of the
Texas Panhandle and down to the Gulf Coast. But for a few customers that might have some tangent, tertiary impacts to
energy, we really don't have anything in our gun sights, and none of our communities are struggling in that category
either, based on the consumer or the small business.
<Q - Paul J. Miller>: Okay, guys, thank you very much.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Thanks, Paul.
Operator
Your next question comes from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Hi, Ken.
<Q - Kenneth M. Usdin>: Hi, good afternoon, or good morning, I should say. Just following up on the fee side, just
wanted to ask you guys to remind us, I know you are getting towards better comps on a year-over-year basis in some of
these fee areas. Can you kind of just walk us through, in addition to mortgage in the fourth quarter to be mindful of,
what are the plus and minus seasonalities and where are you seeing kind of better comps versus still some challenges
you face on the fee side?
<A - Andrew J. Cecere>: Hi, Ken, this is Andy. In the fourth quarter, I would expect to see continued strength in our
merchant processing. A little lower on a linked quarter basis because, as Kathy mentioned, we have very strong
equipment sales in the third quarter. That will continue, but at a little lower level in the fourth quarter. But the
year-over-year comps will continue to be very favorable. Card is always positive in the fourth quarter. Corporate
payments is down a little bit, because the third quarter is the big quarter for that one. Trust is going to be dependent a
little bit upon the market. So there is the market impact to that. The S&P market impacts fees overall. And then
mortgage fees I would expect to be modestly down in the fourth quarter, typical seasonality in the fourth quarter is
down 5% to 15%.
<Q - Kenneth M. Usdin>: So when I think about all of that, is it kind of just naturally just going to be a little tougher
to see fee growth, just given those couple of normal fourth quarter seasonalities plus mortgage?
<A - Andrew J. Cecere>: I think, if you take out the couple of unusual items that we have this quarter, the Visa gain
and the student loan impact, I would expect moderate growth on a linked quarter basis .
<Q - Kenneth M. Usdin>: Okay, got it. Great. And then secondly, in terms of the ability to kind of hold the margin
flattish from here, are we now done with the kind of investment portfolio build? I know a lot of it will still be
dependent on deposit growth, which continues to be pretty good, but what are you doing as far as the rate environment
Company Name: U.S. Bancorp
Company Ticker: USB US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 15
and investment portfolio builds and mix?
<A - Kathy Ashcraft Rogers>: Yes, this is Kathy. So, as you know, from an investment portfolio perspective, we are
at our LCR coverage ratio, so any activity that you will see in our investment portfolio, along with build will just be in
line with balance sheet, so I don't expect a significant amount there. We will continue to see some impacts from the
reinvestment rate though, however, as some of those securities pay down and we reinvest, that will come on at a bit
lower spread than what we had before.
Although that mitigated a bit for us in third quarter, we will keep our eyes on fourth quarter in the rate environment. So
I think, really, what causes us to think about stable margin as we go into fourth quarter is this continued mix of our loan
portfolio. So if the consumer loans are, and we expect them to continue to be a bigger piece of the growth on a linked
quarter basis, that will guide us to stable margins as we look into quarter four.
<Q - Kenneth M. Usdin>: Okay, got it. Thank you.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Thanks, Ken.
Operator
Your next question is from Bill Carcache with Nomura.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Hi, Bill.
<Q - William Carcache>: Hi and good morning, thanks. Richard, I had a high level strategic question for you on
Elavon. Clearly it's a very high return generating business that contributes nicely to your profitability, but there are a
number of publicly-traded merchant acquires out there trading at around 25 times or so on forward earnings. And that's
arguably not a valuation that Elavon is getting inside of USB.
And we have gotten some questions from investors who've been wondering whether there is an opportunity there for
you guys to unlock some value by spinning it off, particularly with what we have seen from some other banks who
have spun out their acquiring businesses and they are actually doing quite well today, and we have got some other IPOs
happening now, and just kind of with all of that as the backdrop, can you speak to how you think about that?
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Sure. First of all, Bill, this has actually come up before. I think it's maybe five years ago or
six years ago in the earlier stages of my CEO time, and as it turns out, we just have to go back around and describe not
only the merits of having that kind of business in a bank, but connected to the bank. So first of all, we are an acquirer,
but we are also an issuer, and with that combination comes remarkable benefits that an acquirer alone doesn't have.
And so we can do the testing, we can do the modeling, we have talked about closed loops before. Everything we want
to pilot or understand about consumer and the merchant behaviors, we can test both sides of that, and there is an
amazing amount of value to that that I would strongly want to connect to you.
The second piece is we do a lot of that business for our own customers. So instead of having to outsource an acquiring
position to our retailers or our small merchant, we actually provide that service to them directly. I think, so, some banks
provide insurance and they do directly to their customers. We do the merchant acquiring. And maybe as importantly,
we do this for hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of smaller banks across the nation. And the smaller
bank, if I were a smaller bank and I used to work at one, I would trust the capabilities and the, what I will call, the
regulatory understanding of the environment, another bank more than a non-bank; so we get a lot of benefits by being a
bank doing business for other banks. We white label it, we private label it, we call it their merchant servicing, but with
it comes an amazing flow of new business and highly retained customers by being a bank to other banks.
So all of that is probably not unlocked as you said, but it's certainly part and parcel to why we think this business is
great, why we want to keep growing it. It has an international feeling, too, so I have got a nice natural hedge now with
all of the business we do in Europe and in Central America and South America. There is no reason that can't continue
to grow as long as the economic, social impacts are understood. But for the volatility of the foreign exchange, we have
no other risk because it's a 24-hour settlement.
Company Name: U.S. Bancorp
Company Ticker: USB US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 15
So it's a great business, we love it. The cost of entry for other banks is quite prohibited, so I want to stick with it, stay
with it, grow with it, but if I were to dis-couple from the bank, it would become more germane to a standalone
merchant acquire that has none of the benefits that I just described.
<Q - William Carcache>: Got it. That's very helpful. Thank you. If I may, separately, can you share any thoughts on
where the non-operating deposits that some of the larger banks have been deemphasizing are going and are you guys
actively doing anything to either keep those away or perhaps could you potentially see value in them?
<A - Andrew J. Cecere>: Our deposit basis is principally operating. We have been very good about managing the core
there. We don't have some of those non-operating more fluctuating higher volatility deposits, so that has not been an
issue for us and we have not been turning any away. We have been working with our customers, and again, for the
most part ours are operating and core.
<Q - William Carcache>: And is the deposit growth that you guys have been seeing just kind of a result or are you
guys actively kind of managing that growth? It kind of stands out because your deposit growth is still exceeding your
loan growth and we are actually seeing that at the system level that that's no longer the case, loan growth has now
started to exceed deposit growth. I'm just wondering if that was something that you guys were actively trying to drive?
<A - Kathy Ashcraft Rogers>: Right. No. No, we're not actively managing any kind of deposit growth or, as Andy
said, we are not looking at getting out of any deposits, either, on our books. So, really, what you see in our deposit
growth is just that the core growth that we are seeing from our consumer – or our customer base, and I will say that it
really is across all of the categories in our wholesale and our consumer, and keep in mind that we do have that strong
base of deposits within our corporate trust area. So we do see deposit growth really across the company. And it is really
just a reflection of what our customers are doing.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Bill, this is Richard. We are all going to have to get ready for this moment when deposits
start to flow out of banks, and we should celebrate it, right? You're all going to want to measure the beta and who loses
the most and what's the retention factor? We'll all be prepared for that. But, really, we really do want to see customers
use their deposits. They are back up to a savings level now that hasn't been seen in 12 years. That's great for America,
but now we want them to use it. And all the fuel pricing, for the most part, benefits seem to have gone into savings in
some form of either paying down debt or saving it in the bank, which is great.
But we all do want to see that start to move. Because, as we've said before, the first canary in the mind is deposits go
down, secondly lines of credit that are already extended but not used, get used and then, eventually, new lines and loans
start to happen. That's how the cycle reverses itself. We are still not there. And, honestly, I will be the first to cheer
when deposits start to flow out because consumerism starts and because the economy is really back up and running.
<Q - William Carcache>: Do you see, Richard, a scenario where that competition for deposits could potentially
intensify, perhaps, even before The Fed raises rates? Or is it kind of a function of The Fed having to raise rates first?
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Yes, it's going to be definitely not before, not even at that moment. It will be later when
either somebody has decided they misguided themselves in this quieter period and got rid of their deposit gathering
options and need to go out and price up for it, or there will be a bank or two that wants to get clever and creative and try
to guess the market movement and do these laddering programs and these guarantees and things that we never did
before and wouldn't recommend in the future. But those kinds of behaviors I think you will see, but they won't happen
now and they won't happen even at the point of rate increase. They will happen when people start to realize deposits
start to matter, again, and they will have to decide to get hungry for an avenue they might have closed off.
<Q - William Carcache>: That's very helpful. Thank you all very much for taking my questions.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Thanks, Bill.
Operator
Company Name: U.S. Bancorp
Company Ticker: USB US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 15
Your next question comes from John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Hi, John.
<Q - John Pancari>: Morning. On the margin, got your guidance for fourth quarter for stable. On 2016, just want to
see if you can give us a little bit of color there. Do you expect that the margin should hold relatively stable through
2016 as well, or do you think pricing competition can still have a bit of an effect on that?
<A - Kathy Ashcraft Rogers>: John, we are guiding into the fourth quarter, and I would be hesitant to guide out past
that. But what I would say is the loan mix of our portfolio growth with consumer growing a little bit higher at higher
spreads than we see on the wholesale, I think that, coupled with just our reinvestment rate impact on securities, is kind
of starting to narrow a bit. If those similar – or if those things continue as we move into 2016, I would think that we
would have similar type expectations. But at this point we are looking quarter-to-quarter and, as we said, probably
stable into quarter four.
<Q - John Pancari>: Okay. That's helpful. And then separately, just wanted to get your updated thoughts for – or the
updated strategy around mortgage banking, basically, from the standpoint of how much you plan to still push
production there, and then your retention strategy versus originate to sell? Thanks.
<A - Andrew J. Cecere>: So, if it is a qualifying mortgage, Freddie or Fannie, we will sell that. It is a better financial
decision, from our perspective, to originate and sell those mortgages. If it is a jumbo or non-salable mortgage, we will
put that on the balance sheet. We have been a little bit more aggressive with that, particularly with our own customers
who've talked about that. So, that would be our expectation.
We have gone from about 21st in terms of size to fifth or sixth, and I would expect us to continue to be in that range.
Our particular emphasis is to put more branch distribution as a focus in terms of our core growth, and that is something
that we continue to drive and are successful in increasing. So, I expect to see us grow at the market, perhaps a little bit
above the market, particular focus on branch; and if it is salable, we will sell it.
<Q - John Pancari>: Okay. All right. Last question is just around the reserve; edged a little bit lower this quarter by a
few bps. Do you think, all things equal, that we should still see that reserve to loan ratio edge lower over the next
couple of quarters as well?
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Bill, do you want to take that?
<A - P. W. Parker>: Sure, I can take that. So, we are getting to the point where our reserve release has been de
minimis, really, and we have to weigh the balance of continued improving loan quality versus loan growth. So we are
looking at a point now where we are probably flattened out to seeing some increases in the wholesale area. And the one
area where there is still some potential for credit opportunity, reserve opportunity, is in residential mortgage; but we are
just about at that point where that mix is flattening out, and I expect that we will eventually have to provide for loan
growth.
<Q - John Pancari>: Okay. Thanks for taking my questions.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Thanks, John.
Operator
Your next question comes from Vivek Juneja with JPMorgan.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Hi, Vivek.
<Q - Vivek Juneja>: Hi. A couple of questions for you folks. Firstly, the equipment sales in merchant processing that
you were talking about, how much of that is due to the new EMV adoption by merchants, and when does that get done?
Company Name: U.S. Bancorp
Company Ticker: USB US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 15
<A - Andrew J. Cecere>: Vivek, this is Andy. So the acceleration, the increase is principally due to that EMV. We
always sell equipment in any particular quarter. It's higher in this quarter than last quarter. I would expect it to continue
at least for a quarter or two quarters, perhaps not at the levels we saw in the third quarter; but it is principally due to that
acceleration because merchants are buying chip-enabled terminals.
<Q - Vivek Juneja>: Right, right, right. Okay. That's what I thought, that that probably accelerated. And the card
portfolio you acquired from Auto Club, what was the – that was in this quarter and how much were the receivables on
that, Andy?
<A - Andrew J. Cecere>: It was $525 million right at the end of the quarter, so no impact in quarter three. You will
see that impact in quarter four.
<Q - Vivek Juneja>: $525 million.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: And, Vivek, the portfolio looked exactly like our portfolio. I mean, from charge-offs to
revolve to average spend, it's right down the fairway and it's a complete continuation of the kind of service that we
provide that quality of customer.
<Q - Vivek Juneja>: So is it like a private label type portfolio, Richard, or is it just a regular – or a co-branded or is it
going to be more – given that it says Auto Club, I would think – or is it some kind of affinity type?
<A - Andrew J. Cecere>: It's an Auto Club branded card that is with our support and backing. So it's on our balance
sheet, our processing, but Auto Club has the sort of rewards that go along with it.
<Q - Vivek Juneja>: I see. Okay. Thanks. One last thing; consumer banking, if I look at the efficiency ratio, that has
risen all throughout the last year. Can you talk a little bit about what – any plans to bring that down or change the
direction of that?
<A - Andrew J. Cecere>: So, Vivek, consumer banking is the most impacted business line by the low rate
environment in terms of their earnings, as we sit today. So they have a lot of deposits. Those deposits, on a relative
basis, are below the typical spreads and value that we have on a long-term basis and that impact is what is driving their
efficiency ratio. So as rates start to move, you will see that business line more than any other start to improve in terms
of efficiency ratio.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: And, Vivek, this is Richard. That's why we could be wrong, but at least we're going to have
the luxury of deciding later, but branch closures look very attractive now because they are not only not very profitable,
they are actually going in the wrong direction as this long interest rate stays low and deposit values are much less than
they will be in the future. But there will be a time when rates go back up. I know you and I are old enough to
remember, and deposits will be the governor on how many loans you can make. And that's the benefit we're always
going to have on these interlopers who are coming in with these great lending ideas. They don't have the deposits...
<Q - Vivek Juneja>: Right.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: ...and we shouldn't give up the one thing we have, which is deposits, which will be the key
driver.
So for us, we have been rationalizing our branch system a lot. We don't look for headlines on it. We have been
retooling what happens in the branches. All the things that you would expect us to do. And closing where they are
necessary and opening where they are necessary. But we are by and large a believer in the branch network. We think
it's the best core deposit. It's the best quality customers we get from a branch referred loan or credit line. And yet right
now would be a bad time to evaluate their value, because at this point at the end of a long recession, they are not very
attractive.
<Q - Vivek Juneja>: Okay. Thank you.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Yes.
Company Name: U.S. Bancorp
Company Ticker: USB US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 15
Operator
The next question is from Chris Mutascio with KBW.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Hi, Chris.
<Q - Chris M. Mutascio>: Good morning, Richard, how are you?
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Good. How are you?
<Q - Chris M. Mutascio>: I'm doing well, thank you. I hate to do this to you; I was on another conference call that
was running at the same time.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Yes?
<Q - Chris M. Mutascio>: Yes, I'm sorry. Would you remind rehashing just briefly your opening comments about
expenses and the kind of initiatives you are looking through?
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Yes, I think I will just repeat it for everybody. What we have been doing for a year now is
watching our FTE assets and be very prudent about where we add them. We have recently gone through rationalization
program where our lower performers that were not performing, just not at the highest level given the importance of an
FTE, we have now used a company program to do a talent upgrade and effectively eased people out of the company.
And on top of that, in the last quarter we added this discretionary expense review, which is the other half of the expense
categories, and started looking at where we don't need to be spending money at this point in time until rates move.
And that's something we gave some color around. I said that, in the quarter four, it's going to be a $10 million to $15
million net benefit that we wouldn't have had, if we hadn't taken that extra action. For 2016, it will obviously be more
than that, but we are not ready to size it, because I'm also not going to necessarily give you guys a sense that all
expenses stop, because we are just reallocating to the right things. And in some cases we are going to be investing in
places we haven't in the past.
So, too early to rate for 2016, but definitely net positive. And our goal is to get to the positive operating leverage at the
minimum annual levels, starting next year.
<Q - Chris M. Mutascio>: I appreciate that. And I do apologize for having to rehash that. My one follow-up; Kathy,
specific to fourth quarter, did you say that expenses will be up over third quarter? And, if so, was that up from the
reported number of, what, $2.77 billion?
<A - Kathy Ashcraft Rogers>: Yes, I would say it's up from a reported number, and that's principally driven, as we
said, by the fact that our tax credit amortization expense is – quarter four is our seasonally highest increase related to
tax credit amortization expense, and we said that that would probably go up in the range of about $65 million to $75
million, similar to what we saw in previous trends. And then you could expect to see that increase being partially offset
by some of the elevated costs that we have caught out here in quarter three.
<Q - Chris M. Mutascio>: Great. All right, thank you so much for the color. I appreciate it.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Thanks.
Operator
And your final question is from Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Hi, Nancy.
<Q - Nancy Avans Bush>: Good morning, how are you?
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Good.
Company Name: U.S. Bancorp
Company Ticker: USB US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 15
<Q - Nancy Avans Bush>: Richard, a couple; I can't remember if it was last quarter or the quarter before, you were
sort of the last bank CEO to kind of throw in the towel and say that the economy was getting better, definitively better.
Do you want to repeal that now?
<A - Richard K. Davis>: No, I don't remember being that strong. But, I would say it's not getting worse. I know I said
that before. Undeniably, it's not getting worse. I mean, things aren't going backwards; people aren't going in the
direction of not investing. People aren't afraid to buy cars, people aren't afraid to use their credit line. I think, for a more
political discussion, there's the haves and have-nots, right, and the barbell of who is participating and who is not is
greater than it used to be. But being a prime-only lender and being at a pretty high quality on the line of customers, we
are not impacted mostly by that. And we are feeling a small, slow, steady, almost monotonous, and I will call
torturously slow improvement over the course of time.
I do believe, Nancy, I have always believed it, I could be totally wrong, and happy to be, if I am, but when the first rate
moves, a real move, not a thought of it, not a predilection of it, not a guess of it, I do think that the Corporate America
starts to move quickly. And they will start to take advantage first because they have most to gain. And then I think they
will start to create some incentives to create consumerism and I think we are off to the races. I think, for the first time,
business will draw us out of the slow recovery, than consumers. And while we will call it a recovery because it's not a
recession, it still feels slow and very measured.
So, I'm not writing home about it. Without interest rates moving, you just keep seeing us all doing a little more of what
we were doing before, managing to the needs of customers who do have the wherewithal and do have the motives to
want to keep growing and benefiting in their lives. But plenty of people aren't playing yet. And the savers are getting
killed.
<Q - Nancy Avans Bush>: And a couple of quarters before that, you had said that you had a long list of projects that
you wanted to do, and that you would start doing them as quickly as the interest rate environment turned. But that you
were being very cautious on taking on new projects in the light of the expense control that was necessary. So are there
any of those projects that are on that list that need to get done, no matter what the interest rate environment is,
particularly if this rate environment is going to go on longer than anybody had anticipated?
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Yes, there's two answers to that. One is mobile transitions to banking channels. We are
spending money on that. We have talked about our growth; our hundreds of people in Atlanta that work on those topics.
I haven't starved that one bit, because that is the changing environment we're in. We have to be a leader on that, we're
expected to be, and we have to invest. So that's a good ROI in the long-term, it's not a near-term ROI.
The other one, Nancy, is we are spending money on compliance. What I have learned, if you have heard my speech
before, it's like we have gone from baggage handlers to pilots; same company. Baggage handlers, every once in a
while, make a mistake. And up until now, it's okay; no one loses their life, but pilots in the same company can't crash a
plane. I have had to move all of our employees from baggage handlers to pilots and we are still in that transition. The
regulators have required that of us as well.
So I am spending money on either back office or more often than not technology to replace some of the error ridden
places where human interaction creates an outcome that's not acceptable anymore. And that investment is worth it, not
because it's a better product, necessarily, but because it's a better compliance outcome and it's a safer way to earn when
you don't have the potential of penalties and fines and risks.
So those are two things that have not been touched. Other things would be the more attractive ways to just increase the
capabilities you do in the back office that no one really sees but it's just more elegant, less involvement where people
have to touch customers, where customer can self-serve. All those things are – some of those are nice to have. Where
they are not required, we are holding back on those, and those will be the things we'll add back the minute we start
seeing revenue growth.
<Q - Nancy Avans Bush>: Thank you.
<A - Richard K. Davis>: Yes.
Company Name: U.S. Bancorp
Company Ticker: USB US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 15
Operator
I will now turn the call back to Sean O'Connor for closing remarks.
Sean O'Connor
Thanks for listening to our review of third quarter results, and please contact me this afternoon if you have any
follow-up questions. Thanks.
Richard K. Davis
Thanks, everybody.
Kathy Ashcraft Rogers
Thank you.
Operator
This concludes today's conference call; you may now disconnect.
Richard K. Davis
Thanks, Melissa.
Operator
You're welcome.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.