Company Name: Alphabet Inc
Company Ticker: GOOGL US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 15
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Ellen West
• Ruth Porat
• Sundar Pichai
• Unidentified Participant
Other Participants
• Mark S. Mahaney
• Ross Sandler
• Carlos Kirjner-Neto
• Heather Anne Bellini
• Brian Nowak
• Eric J. Sheridan
• Justin Post
• Douglas T. Anmuth
• Ken Sena
• Anthony DiClemente
• Paul Vogel
• Stephen Ju
• Mark A. May
• Colin A. Sebastian
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Alphabet Inc.'s Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At
this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and
instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Ellen West, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please
go ahead.
Ellen West
Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Alphabet's conference call on Google's third quarter 2015
earnings. With us today are Ruth Porat and Sundar Pichai. As you know, we distribute our earnings release through our
Investor Relations website located at investor.google.com. Please refer to our IR website for our earnings releases as
well as the supplementary slides that accompanying the call. This call is also being webcast from investor.google.com.
A replay of the call will be available on our website later today.
Now, let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered
forward-looking, including statements regarding Alphabet's future investments, our long term growth and innovation,
Company Name: Alphabet Inc
Company Ticker: GOOGL US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 15
the expected performance of our businesses and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a
number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For more information, please refer
to the risk factors discussed in our Form 10-K for 2014 filed with the SEC.
Any forward-looking statements that we make are based on assumptions as of today, and we undertake no obligation to
update these statements as a result of new information or future events. During this call, we will present both GAAP
and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in today's earnings
press release. The press release and an accompanying Investor Presentation are available on our website at
investor.google.com.
And now, I'll turn the call over to Ruth.
Ruth Porat
Thanks, Ellen. We turned in a strong performance in the third quarter notwithstanding continued meaningful currency
headwinds. The key highlight this quarter was the substantial growth of our mobile search revenue, complemented by
ongoing strong contributions from YouTube and our Programmatic business.
I will first give you a summary of the quarter followed by specific financial details, and conclude with comments
regarding our upcoming move to segment reporting. Sundar will then review the business and product highlights of the
quarter, after which we will take your questions.
Beginning with a summary of our financial performance. Total revenue was $18.7 billion, up 13% year-over-year, and
up 5% sequentially. As a result of the ongoing strengthening of the U.S. dollar, we realized a negative currency impact
on our revenues of $1.6 billion or $1.3 billion after the benefit of our hedging programs.
Holding currency constant to prior periods, our total revenue grew 21% year-over-year and 7% sequentially. On a
GAAP basis, operating profit was $4.7 billion and the operating margin was 25%. On a non-GAAP basis, operating
profit was $6.1 billion and the operating margin was 33%. GAAP operating income was up 26% versus last year, and
GAAP net income from continuing operations was up 36% year-over-year.
As a reminder, the year-on-year increases reflect a non-cash impairment charge of $378 million in the third quarter of
2014. Non-GAAP operating income was up 15% year-over-year, and non-GAAP net income was up 19%
year-over-year. GAAP earnings per diluted share were $5.73. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share were $7.35. As
detailed in the earning slides on our IR website, stock-based compensation totaled $1.4 billion, up 14% year-over-year
and up 27% sequentially.
With respect to stock-based compensation, the increase reflects the fact that our annual equity refresh grants were made
in the third quarter, as well as head count growth. Headcount increased 16% versus last year and 5% versus 2Q 2015.
Sequential growth reflects typical seasonality with new grads starting. The vast majority of whom are engineers and
product managers.
Let me now turn to key elements of our financial statements. Starting with our primary revenue sources. Google Sites
revenue was $13.1 billion, up 16% year-over-year and up 6% sequentially, notwithstanding currency headwinds.
Year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter growth reflect substantial strength in mobile search due to ongoing improvement
in ad formats and delivery to better address how consumers use their mobile devices. YouTube revenue continues to
grow at a significant rate, with growth driven primarily by video advertising across TrueView and Google Preferred.
Network revenue was $3.7 billion, up 4% year-on-year and up 2% sequentially, continuing to reflect the significant
growth of Programmatic, offset by the traditional Network businesses.
Other revenue was $1.9 billion, up 11% year-over-year, and up 11% sequentially. Given the geographic mix of our
Play business, FX also had an impact on other revenue. Year-over-year growth was driven by Google for Work,
including Cloud, as well as continued strong growth in Play. Both were offset by the absence of revenues included in
3Q 2014 from a licensing agreement and lower hardware sales as we reached the end of life cycles for certain
Company Name: Alphabet Inc
Company Ticker: GOOGL US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 15
Chromecast and Nexus devices.
Next, let me discuss revenues by geography, which will highlight the impact currency headwinds continue to have on
our non-U.S. business. U.S. revenue was up 19% year-over-year to $8.8 billion and up 9% versus Q2.
UK revenue was up 10% year-over-year to $1.8 billion and up 7% sequentially. In fixed FX terms, the UK grew 18%
year-over-year and 7% quarter-over-quarter. Rest of world revenue was up 7% versus last year to $8.1 billion and up
2% versus Q2. In fixed FX terms, revenues were up 23% year-over-year and up 5% sequentially. The acceleration in
U.S. and UK growth, in particular, reflect the growth in mobile search.
Finally, on monetization, as a reminder, these metrics similarly are affected by currency movements. Aggregate paid
clicks grew 23% year-over-year and 6% sequentially. Aggregate CPCs were down 11% year-over-year and 1%
sequentially.
In terms of the drivers within Google Sites paid clicks were up 35% year-over-year and up 7% sequentially. Google
Sites CPCs were down 16% year-over-year and down 2% sequentially. The movement in Google Sites paid clicks and
CPCs primarily reflects the continued growth in YouTube TrueView.
Network paid clicks were down 5% year-over-year and flat sequentially, reflecting the impact of our ongoing policy
changes designed to reduce lower quality inventory on AdSense for search, consistent with our focus on improving the
user experience. Network CPCs were down 4% year-over-year and up 1% sequentially.
Let me now turn to expenses. Total traffic acquisition costs were $3.6 billion, or 21% of total advertising revenue,
essentially flat as a percentage of revenue sequentially and down slightly year-over-year. As a reminder, the sites TAC
line includes the TAC that we pay to search distribution partners for distributing Google search as distinct from their
own branded search.
Non-GAAP other cost of revenues was $3.2 billion in Q3, up 16% year-over-year, primarily driven by costs associated
with operating our data centers, including depreciation as well as content acquisition costs, primarily for YouTube and
Play.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $5.7 billion, or 31% of revenue, up 14% year-over-year and up 7% versus Q2.
The increase in operating expense versus comparable periods was primarily driven by R&D expense. A breakout of
individual operating expense lines is available on our earnings slide. Other income and expense was $183 million. The
effective tax rate was 19% for the third quarter.
Turning now to CapEx and operating cash flow. CapEx for the quarter was $2.4 billion, reflecting investments in
production equipment, data center construction and facilities. Operating cash flow was $6 billion, with free cash flow
of $3.6 billion.
Finally, turning to cash; we ended the quarter with a cash balance of approximately $73 billion, of which approximately
$42 billion, or 58% is held overseas. As we announced today, our board has authorized us to commence a repurchase of
our Class C capital stock of up to $5,099,019,513.59. This decision is consistent with our overall capital management
framework and complements a disciplined capital allocation program. Our primary uses of capital will, of course,
remain CapEx and M&A across the breadth of our businesses.
So, now let me conclude. Starting in the fourth quarter, with our move to segment reporting, we intend to provide
additional detail for Google on the one hand and all the other Alphabet businesses on the other hand. We refer to those
other Alphabet businesses as Other Bets. We expect Other Bets to include, among others; Access and Energy, Nest,
Life Sciences, our investment arms and X, which is where driverless cars and certain other incubation efforts reside.
Specifically, we intend to disclose for both Google and Other Bets, revenues, profitability and CapEx.
By doing this, we expect that you will be better able to understand how we manage the businesses, including the pace
and allocation of our investments. As Larry said in his CEO letter announcing Alphabet, we are focused on rigorously
managing capital allocation and working to make sure each business is executing well.
Company Name: Alphabet Inc
Company Ticker: GOOGL US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 15
With that preface, let me turn to four key themes. First, in terms of revenues, our strong revenue growth in Q3 reflects
the ongoing momentum in Google with acceleration in mobile search, complemented by the strength of YouTube and
Programmatic. The Other Bets are earlier stage businesses, which we believe have significant longer-term revenue
potential. In the near-term, the focus there is on optimizing our investments.
Second, with respect to profitability, we remain focused on managing expenses within our control, while investing to
support the growth areas we have in Google and Other Bets. Segment reporting, by definition, provides greater insights
into the profit dynamics within Alphabet.
Third, as to CapEx, the vast majority to-date, of course, has been to support Google, where we continue to invest given
our exciting opportunities globally. At the same time, CapEx in Other Bets is expected to increase through next year as
we continue to execute on the growth agenda there. In particular, in Access and Energy which contains our Fiber
business, among other efforts.
Fourth, our growing cash balance remains a powerful tool, giving us the flexibility to invest in the breadth of
opportunities we have within Google and Other Bets, as well as to selectively pursue compelling new bets.
I will now turn the call over to Sundar who will go into more detail regarding our business trends and products.
Sundar Pichai
Thanks, Ruth. I'm glad to be here with you all today to talk about the areas we are focused on, now and in the future at
Google. There is a real sense of energy and focus throughout the company and we are seeing momentum across the
businesses. Products like Search, Android, Maps, Chrome and YouTube each have over a billion users already and
Google Play crossed that milestone this quarter as well.
But what's most exciting is that we are just beginning to scratch the surface. We know that computing transforms
people's lives. We have gone from the PC revolution to the Internet revolution to the mobile revolution and 10 years
from now, everything will be different again in ways no one can predict.
Our vision is for Google to remain a place of incredible creativity and innovation that uses our unique technical
expertise to tackle big problems and create that future. We do this arm-in-arm with our partners around the world.
Today, I want to touch on three key areas that are important for us. First, making information accessible and useful;
then, how we are building computing platforms used by billions of people; and lastly, how we are driving growth in our
core advertising business as well as new emerging businesses.
Let's start with the first area. Google's core mission has always been to organize the world's information and make it
universally accessible and useful. Search continues to be at the center of this, with people turning to search on mobile
every day to find quick answers. In fact, search traffic on mobile phones have now surpassed desktop traffic
worldwide.
We are also seeing strong mobile momentum in many emerging markets like India, which is the number two country
for mobile search queries behind the U.S. This is a result of our laser-focus on helping users quickly find the right
information. People just want to be able to find information they are looking for on mobile without having to worry
about whether it lives on the mobile web or within apps. Mobile app usage, as well as web usage, is accelerating
significantly.
We have now indexed more than 100 billion deep links within third-party apps. So, if you're looking for information
that lives within an app, we'll surface it as a result and even give you an install link, if you don't already have it. The
teams have made great progress and 40% of searches now return app index results in the top five results. These
investments have gone viral and you'll continue to see us push in this area.
We also continue to improve the Google app. For instance, app developers can now build conversational voice
experiences that work within the Google app. So, if you ask Google to play NPR, NPR will respond by asking if you
Company Name: Alphabet Inc
Company Ticker: GOOGL US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 15
want to pick up where you left off or catch up on the latest news.
It's also very important that we help to make the mobile web better and faster for users, both through our own products
and by partnering with others. Working with over 30 publication and technology partners, we recently announced an
open-source initiative called Accelerated Mobile Pages to make it easy for publishers and content creators to build
superfast web pages for their content. This will help make the mobile web a better, more enjoyable experience for
users.
I also want to point out that our investments in machine learning and artificial intelligence are a priority for us.
Machine learning has long powered things like voice search, translation and much more. And our machine learning is
hard at work in mobile services like Now on Tap, which quickly assist you by providing additional useful information
for whatever you're doing, right in the moment, anywhere on your phone. If you're an Android user that runs
Marshmallow, try it out by long-pressing the home button when you are in the map; it's very cool.
Another example is the Google Photos app, which leverages powerful machine learning technology to help people
discover, organize and share their photos. It's a great product that people love. In fact, in just a few months since we
launched it at Google I/O, photos is now used by over 100 million users who have collectively uploaded more than 50
billion photos and videos.
Now, I want to talk about how we are building computing platforms that are used by billions of people. We'll continue
to invest in large open ecosystems that we build with partners to reach great scale. Android is a prime example of this,
and we are seeing exciting momentum on our platform. There are more than 1.4 billion 30-day active Android users
around the world and we're beginning to roll out Android Marshmallow, which is our best-performing release yet.
Working with partners Huawei and LG, we announced the newest devices joining our Nexus family, the Nexus 6P and
Nexus 5X. They're beautiful and powerful devices that show us the latest and greatest that the Android has to offer, and
they've gotten tremendous reviews so far. We also announced the Pixel C, which is the first Android tablet, built end to
end by Google that brings together the benefits of a full-sized keyboard with the portability of a tablet.
We are also creating platforms for newer areas of computing, such as Android Wear, which now works with iOS as
well; Android Auto, the Internet of Things platform that we unveiled at I/O Brillo; and, of course, Chrome.
Chrome also powers Chromecast and our recent Chromecast update gave it a refreshed look and faster performance.
We also introduced Chromecast Audio, which lets you stream your favorite music from your phone to any set of
speakers. To-date, we have sold over 20 million Chromecast devices and have seen over 1.5 billion taps of the cast
button since we launched.
We're also seeing great momentum in our ads business. Our value proposition to marketers of all sizes is simple.
Google can help you show the right ads to the right people at the right moment. As you've heard on these calls before,
we are seeing a major shift in consumer behavior to its micro moments. These are moments or high intent when
consumers are looking to find, buy or do something. They happen throughout the day, most often on mobile devices.
The single biggest theme throughout our advertising business is to help small businesses, large marketers, agencies and
content creators to take advantage of this mobile opportunity.
In search advertising, there's a huge amount going on. Advertisers like Dunkin' Donuts and Airbnb are turning to
mobile search to capitalize on these key moments, reach customers and create engaging local experiences. We also
recently made search apps and Google Play available to all developers, letting app developers find new customers for
their app at a great price that it matters. Many small developers are already taking advantage of this.
At Adweek, we introduced Customer Match, which lets marketers reach their existing customers with customized
search ads on Google.com as well as ads in YouTube and Gmail. Of course, these are really valuable for reaching key
customers at moments of high intent on mobile devices.
With the holiday season coming up, we are investing in providing great shopping experiences on mobile. We are also
helping marketers understand how search ads are driving in-store sales with products like store visits, which uses our
unique mobile location capabilities and is easy for any business to implement.
Company Name: Alphabet Inc
Company Ticker: GOOGL US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 15
Moving to YouTube. Every day people watch hundreds of millions of hours on YouTube. You know from the last
quarterly call about the amazing momentum that YouTube has in mobile, and it's largely coming from the YouTube
app. The growth in mobile watch time also extends to videos featuring product reviews and information. People turn to
YouTube when they want to research, buy or fix a product. For example, mobile watch time for apparel videos has
doubled this year and videos about toys have also doubled.
We see this same growth in advertising on the platform, too, and we continue to invest in building ways for marketers
to reach consumers effectively like our recently announced shopping ads for YouTube, which lets people shop directly
from a video, turning any relevant video into your digital storefront.
And in Programmatic video and display, the strong momentum continues. The number of advertisers using our
Programmatic solutions has nearly doubled in the last year and a half, and now includes over 80% of Ad Age's top
hundred advertisers.
Additionally, both mobile and video impressions served on DoubleClick Bid Manager have grown more than 3.5x
since last year. This is an area that's on fire for us right now and you'll see us to continue to invest in creating the best
Programmatic solutions for advertisers and agencies.
Before I close, I want to touch on a few of our emerging businesses, where we see enormous opportunities. First, digital
content. Google Play continues to be a thriving hub for out digital content business, now with over a billion users.
And just yesterday, I was really pleased that we announced YouTube Red, our YouTube subscription service for just
$9.99 a month. It enables you to see videos on YouTube without ads, watch them offline or keep playing videos when
you lock your screen or start using another application.
Additionally, our Google for Work business is seeing tremendous growth. In the third quarter, we crossed one million
paying active customers using Google Drive at work. Cloud is also a growing area where we see great opportunity and
we are building a fantastic service that we'll keep investing in.
Our momentum in the education space continues as well, with more than 50 million Google Apps for Education users
worldwide, and over 10 million teachers and students using Google Classrooms, since it launched a year ago. There are
also 30,000 new Chromebooks activated in schools in the U.S. every school day. That's more than all other devices
combined.
So to wrap up, we have tremendous new opportunities in our new and existing businesses. We are really excited about
the products and platforms that we are building for people everywhere in the world, and we are passionate about the
transformative power of computing to improve people's lives in the years ahead.
Thank you to everyone for your keen interest in our business, and thank you to all of the Googlers around the world for
another great quarter.
And with that, I will hand it back to Ruth.
Ruth Porat
Thank you, Sundar. And we will now take your questions.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Mark Mahaney from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Company Name: Alphabet Inc
Company Ticker: GOOGL US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 15
<Q - Mark S. Mahaney>: Great. Thanks. Two questions. Could you talk about the sustainability of the mobile search
revenue growth that you see there, and is that just really being driven by finally the gapping up of mobile search pricing
versus desktop pricing or is there something else going on?
And then Ruth, I was just trying to figure out how you came up with that – your repurchase number and I've been
Googling that number a couple of times. I can see it's 26 to the e18th of the square root of that, but outside of that how
did you come up with that particular amount of share buyback? Why not more or why not less? Thanks.
<A - Ruth Porat>: Thanks, Mark. So, starting on the sustainability of mobile revenue growth. As I said in my opening
comments, revenue growth really reflects continued improvement in ad formats and delivery and that's on top of what's
a really strong industry-wide global growth in mobile usage, as you know well.
And then we regularly adjust the way we present ads, so we expanded ad space in some queries with particularly high
commercial intent to display more relevant mobile-friendly ads. And our view is just as we saw consumer behavior
change on desktop, we're seeing the same on mobile, and as Sundar said, we continue to believe we're in very early
innings here.
And then in terms of sizing, so this is the way we approached it. If I take you back to the capital framework that I laid
out last quarter, it's defined primarily by CapEx and M&A, but also includes working capital and a buffer as well as a
potential return of capital. And we remain focused on solving the biggest problems and solving them at scale. And that
presents sizeable potential revenue opportunities with the key catalyst for creating Alphabet. But these opportunities
also require investment.
And so, the focus of our team is on prioritizing these opportunities over a multi-year period. We look out kind of as
we're modeling it out a number of years. And then working with the board, we reviewed our outlook. We reviewed the
opportunity set. And we concluded that layering in this action at this time complements what we view as a very
disciplined budgeting process, while still very importantly providing ample capacity to pursue the growth agenda.
And then applying this framework once we had come up with a size that we believe fits and consistent with the way we
do things around here, we decided to come up with some fun math similar to the way we approach sizing the IPO. It
sounds like you've backed right into what that was. We do view it as the right action at the right time. And it really is
anchored in the framework.
<Q - Mark S. Mahaney>: Thanks, Ruth.
<A - Ruth Porat>: Thanks, Mark.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from Ross Sandler from Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open. Please go
ahead.
<Q - Ross Sandler>: Thanks. I have one for Ruth and one for Sundar. Ruth, so back to the mobile search question. The
bare case on Google has been the company's ability or lack thereof to port the search business model from PC over to
mobile. And you called out mobile search as the key driver of acceleration in both the U.S. and the UK. So, can you
just give us a little bit of more color around the volume trends that you're seeing between desktop and mobile as you
cross that 50% threshold that you talked about last quarter?
And then, Sundar, on the platform side, it seems like every few years new companies crop up as the next big Android
OEM. It looks like it's Huawei now. It's been other companies in the past. How do you plan on getting Android to a
point where all these OEMs can build successful businesses on the back of it? And any update on when Google plans to
roll out the Play store in China would be helpful. Thank you.
<A - Ruth Porat>: So starting with mobile and our outlook there. Clearly as I said, mobile search revenue was up
significantly and it was an important catalyst in the quarter. But, the very important thing to note, as we discussed also
Company Name: Alphabet Inc
Company Ticker: GOOGL US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 15
last quarter, is that desktop remains a solid contributor. And so, we continue to have a healthy growth there. And when
we look, if you step back overall sites revenue, we're firing on all cylinders, really strong growth in mobile. Desktop is
healthy and continuing to grow, and then you layer on top of it YouTube and some of the color that Sundar added there.
But, that's really a continuation of what we talked about last quarter as well.
<A - Sundar Pichai>: And on the platform side, look, we continue to see tremendous momentum overall on Android.
In just over a year, we've gone from one billion to 1.4 billion users. So, obviously that translates into huge opportunities
for OEMs, and that's what we are seeing.
Especially, there are whole new markets opening up. There's the next billion users coming online in emerging markets.
And businesses, I mean, enterprises, a whole opportunity for OEMs as well. So, I think there's a lot of room ahead.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from Carlos Kirjner from Bernstein. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
<Q - Carlos Kirjner-Neto>: Thank you. I have two questions. One for Sundar; one for Ruth. Sundar, a two-part. If
you take a three-year view, what are the three main milestones you think you need to reach to be successful as Google's
CEO. And what do you think would be the externally observable consequences of achieving these milestones?
And Ruth, in the last call you talked about the 70-20-10 framework. Can you help us understand what the 70-20-10
applies to? Is it related to operating expenses, other expenses and costs in the P&L, CapEx, R&D, management time?
And is it an explicit constraint in the budgeting process? Or am I trying to read too much into something that's just a
concept or framework and a broad guideline? Thank you.
<A - Sundar Pichai>: Thanks, Carlos. In terms of how I think about it, I think we are fortunate to have an incredibly
broad mission statement. Organizing the world's information turns out to be something that has a lot of room ahead. We
are still in early days. Especially with mobile, I think you have a computing platform that's going to reach – it's already
reached half the world's population, or on its way to reach the entirety of the human population in about five years to 10
years.
So, I want to stay focused on that, both from an information standpoint and a computing standpoint. I think of them as
two sides of the same coin, and making sure we are building the right user experience for that. And so, that's what I'm
focused on.
<A - Ruth Porat>: And then on 70-20-10, it's intended to be instructive, and it's intended to mirror the Founder's
vision and really capture how we devote our resources which, for us, means how do we apply effort.
And you know, for me, one of the many very important statements from the Founders that explains this framework is
when they said in their – in the letters years ago and repeated since, incrementalism and technology leads to relevance,
and thus, innovation is critical.
And so, this mantra is really about pushing people to look at new areas, invest in newer areas, look for things that are
adjacent to 20% and even the unrelated big bets, the 10%. It's not intended to be a specific guide to financial modeling.
I think with our move to segment reporting, we look forward to giving you more information next quarter which should
be helpful there. But directionally, to talk about philosophically how do we think about our approach to the business.
<Q - Carlos Kirjner-Neto>: Thank you.
<A - Ruth Porat>: Thank you.
Operator
Company Name: Alphabet Inc
Company Ticker: GOOGL US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 15
Thank you. And our next question comes Heather Bellini from Goldman Sachs. Your line is now open. Please go
ahead.
<Q - Heather Anne Bellini>: Great. Thank you very much. This question is for Ruth. I was just wondering, given
you're likely in the midst of 2016 business planning right now, can you share with us the way in which you're
approaching budgeting versus maybe how it was done last year? And are there any specifics you can share with us in
terms of how you're thinking about it? Thank you.
<A - Ruth Porat>: Well, I guess a couple of things. There's been a very strong foundation here on budgeting and the
approach in setting an envelope and working very closely with business leaders on what that envelope should be. And
we are in the midst of it. As I said last quarter, but emphasize our priority remains revenue growth, and that doesn't give
us a pass on a rigorous approach to expense growth, and that's where we're focused.
So, I think really what was very encouraging for me is there's a framework, a very strong approach to financial
planning and analysis and really building on that to make sure we have reasonable, but tight envelopes, so that we can
have the right conversations, collectively, collaboratively with our business leaders to assess how we can look at
optimizing all of our resources. And that's what it really comes down to. It's looking at how to manage the rate of
growth of expenses, while still supporting our growth initiatives. And we'll be going into more of that in, as we go
through our segment's reporting in the fourth quarter.
<Q - Heather Anne Bellini>: Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from Brian Nowak from Morgan Stanley. Your line is now open. Please go
ahead.
<Q - Brian Nowak>: Thanks for taking my questions. One on YouTube, I guess. Could you just talk to some of the
qualitative drivers that are really bringing more advertising dollars on to YouTube? And then I think last quarter you
had mentioned the top 100 advertiser spend was up 60% year-on-year on YouTube, wondering, if you could update us
on that?
And the second one on search, it sounds like mobile is accelerating. Where are you now in the mobile versus desktop
monetization gap? And, Sundar, how do you think about that long-term? Do you see mobile being higher, reaching
equilibrium? How do you see that trending?
<A - Sundar Pichai>: On the YouTube one. Look, I mean, the shift to video is a profound medium shift and especially
in the context of mobile, you know and obviously users are following that. You're seeing it in YouTube as well as
elsewhere in mobile. And so, advertisers are being increasingly conscious. They're being very, very responsive. So,
we're seeing great traction there and we'll continue to see that. They are moving more off their traditional budgets to
YouTube and that's where we are getting traction.
On mobile search, to me, increasingly we see – we already announced that over 50% of our searches are on mobile.
Mobile gives us very unique opportunities in terms of better understanding users and over time, as we use things like
machine learning, I think we can make great strides. So, my long-term view on this is, it is as-compelling or in fact
even better than desktop, but it will take us time to get there. We're going to be focused till we get there.
<Q - Brian Nowak>: Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from Eric Sheridan from UBS. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Company Name: Alphabet Inc
Company Ticker: GOOGL US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 15
<Q - Eric J. Sheridan>: Thanks for taking the question. Maybe a big picture question with respect to media
distribution, media consumption and monetizing that usage across all the platforms that you distribute media. I'm sort
of curious about the various business models you've now put in front of consumers, subscription versus advertising
versus pay-per-unit like on Google Play, how you think about the pros and cons of some of those distribution models?
And how you think about the need to maybe source content yourself from media distribution? Thanks.
<A - Sundar Pichai>: Thanks. To me, we want to stay focused on the user experience and we want to follow what
users want, all right. So, if you take something like YouTube, we expect most users to consume YouTube the way it
has been and advertising has been a strong part of providing that content for free to those users and it's growing very,
very well.
But we also see a need for certain users in certain scenarios; be it music or gaming or for premium content, to
experience it in a different way, and we want to make sure we do that. So, we don't have a prescriptive opinion on this
as much as we will provide the right user experience and follow where it goes and that applies to Google Play as well.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from Justin Post from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Your line is now
open. Please go ahead.
<Q - Justin Post>: Thank you. Two things. Ruth, it really does seem like there's been a change in the management
philosophy this year as far as the expense discipline in 2Q, also I have seen the disclosures and now you've got the
buyback announcement. Could you just talk about the change there, if there has been one, and how you think about
that?
And then the second thing, we're pretty focused on the Cloud over here, Google. We don't have a number – it's in your
other revenues – but Amazon's probably eight billion plus run rate, Microsoft over 1.5. Just wondering if you can give
us any thoughts on your Cloud strategy and how you're thinking about using those really strong data center assets?
Thank you.
<A - Ruth Porat>: So, I guess, I would – a couple of things. On expenses and expense management and clearly a lot of
the foundation here was laid some time ago, I think after a period of big expense build-up, there was an appreciation
that we needed to manage the cadence of spend and that's what we're doing.
And collectively, we're locked arm-in-arm to make sure that there's resource prioritization and I think that's an
important part of it. We have an extraordinary set of opportunities not just within Google, but across the Alphabet
businesses, and we need to ensure that prioritization is a key part of all that we do.
I would note that when you're looking at some of the expenses – operating expenses is an example – when we look
forward to the fourth quarter – in particular, given the hardware launches that we've done here with the Nexus,
Chromecast and Pixel launches, consistent with prior device launches, we would expect higher sales and marketing.
And I realize I'm getting a little more specific than your question, but I think it's very important to note that there are
also certain patterns to some of these, similarly with CapEx. CapEx has been a bit more muted here, and I indicated last
quarter that we're in a bit of a digestion period. But when you look forward to 2016, we do see accelerated investment
given the nature of the businesses that we're building up here. So, I want to also just make sure we keep things in
perspective.
And I think it's been an extraordinary experience joining this team. I think with the move to Alphabet, it gives us the
opportunity to then provide some greater insight into the extraordinary operating performance within Google and break
out, so you can see the investments that we're doing, and we're working very tightly as a senior team here as we make
that next step into this new environment in Alphabet.
<A - Sundar Pichai>: On the Cloud side, as you observed, it's an exceptional opportunity. I think it just reflects as a
secular shift. Every businesses in the world is going to run on Cloud eventually, so we view it as an amazing
Company Name: Alphabet Inc
Company Ticker: GOOGL US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 15
opportunity. Being uniquely qualified to do so, as you pointed out, we have tremendous experiences in running
large-kept cloud services. And it's been only in the past two years in earnest, we've been taking those assets and serving
customers outside. For me, what's exciting is, as I look at new customer adoption, we're seeing tremendous momentum.
We are very competitive in each of those situations and we are investing a lot and playing for the long-term.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from Douglas Anmuth from JPMorgan. Your line is now open. Please go
ahead.
<Q - Douglas T. Anmuth>: Great. Thanks for taking the question. Sundar, I wanted to ask about mobile. You talked
about it being greater than 50% of queries and I wanted to ask if you have a view on when that will pass 50% of clicks.
And then also your thoughts on what happens to desktop pricing and demand as that happens. How do you think about
the tail on the desktop business as mobile just continues to take share? Thanks.
<A - Sundar Pichai>: The interesting thing we are seeing is, you know when we talk about mobile. Mobile is a
computing paradigm that's eventually going to blend with what we think of as desktop today as well. So overall, it's a
shift in a computing paradigm, so it's not just form factors.
And so over time we see all of this is together. What matters to us is as people evolve, they're computing paradigms,
search, transitions to that world, and we are the best source to provide that information. So along that line, I expect all
the metrics to follow the trend. And so, we only see all the right indicators, and so I think we're positioned for the long
term wealth. So, I can't comment too much on the specifics beyond that.
<Q - Douglas T. Anmuth>: Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from Ken Sena from Evercore. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
<Q - Ken Sena>: Thank you. I just have an ad format question. Maybe just to follow-up on Eric's. We noticed that
there was an additional ad slot added on mobile, and can you just maybe talk through the decisioning on that. And if so,
you know, is there anything we should interpret as far as the other ad formats that have been used too? Thank you.
<A - Ruth Porat>: Well, big picture what we're doing is looking at ways to use the mobile screen space to be as useful
as possible for users. So, this quarter we had some important changes, and we're always focused on innovation and
we're growing in a growing market; but as we've said, we are looking at how consumer behavior is changing. And just
as it did on desktop, we're seeing the same on mobile and the notion of trying to make sure we're being as useful as
possible for users, as a key driver here and we'll continue to innovate.
<Q - Ken Sena>: And maybe just one follow-up. Can you say anything then maybe in terms of the success or the
efficiency that you're seeing in terms of the text-based mobile ads versus more of the other structured data ones that's
[indiscernible] (42:27) or hotel price ads and so forth? Thanks.
<A - Ruth Porat>: Yeah, there's probably not much to add there.
<Q - Ken Sena>: Thank you.
<A - Ruth Porat>: Thank you
Operator
Company Name: Alphabet Inc
Company Ticker: GOOGL US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 15
Thank you. And our next question comes from Anthony DiClemente from Nomura. Your line is now open. Please go
ahead.
<Q - Anthony DiClemente>: Thanks a lot. I have two. One for Sundar and one for Ruth. Sundar, is ad blocking
something that has a potential to have an impact on the business, either in the fourth quarter or longer term?
And then Ruth, in terms of M&A, just wondering if the buyback might indicate that the company is becoming a bit
more selective around large acquisitions than it's been in prior periods of the company's life cycle? Thanks.
<A - Sundar Pichai>: Thanks, Anthony. On the ad blocking stuff, it's not a new phenomenon. I think it's important to
understand that ads today fund almost all the services, which people use, including products like Google Search,
Google Maps, many, many third-party products. For publishers, it represents the majority of their revenues, and I think
users are okay with the contract and we need to make sure it works well.
It's also clear that there are areas where the ad experience is getting underway. It effects performance. And so, we as an
industry need to collectively do all that better. And so, we are going to work hard to do that. And so, we want to make
sure we transition areas like the mobile web to have better ad experiences. But overall, I think we're used to this, we
have seen this for a while; overwhelmingly the model works well and we expect that to continue.
<A - Ruth Porat>: And then in terms of your M&A question. You know, and I talked about how did we think of sizing
the return, I started with what's really most core to us, which is continuing to focus on the biggest problems and solving
them at scale, and ensuring that we're investing in those. And as I said, that's primarily defined by obviously the
opportunity. But, how do we support the growth. That's about capital expenditure and about M&A. And those are really
the anchor pillars in our capital framework; and then beyond that, there's working capital and a buffer and then the
potential return of capital.
We've talked about the fact that we have six products that have over a billion users. Three of those were through
acquisitions: YouTube, Android and Maps. That is not lost on us. And then you layer on top of that DoubleClick; that
was also through acquisition.
So, we have viewed – and at the time, it wasn't clear – I'd say to everybody that those would end up being the
incredibly powerful effective businesses for users that they are today. And so, it remains a part of what we consider; the
bar is high, but I certainly wouldn't want you to read anything into it beyond what it is. It fits right within our
framework. And as I said, we view it as the right action at the right time.
<Q - Anthony DiClemente>: Understood. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from Paul Vogel from Barclays. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
<Q - Paul Vogel>: Great. Thanks. Two questions, please. First, just when we think about Search and deep linking, can
you just sort of quantify a little bit how important deep linking has been to either clicks or ROI or improvements in
CPC on mobile?
And then the second question, just as we think about the more transparency going forward in Q4, how should we think
about businesses that currently are in the Other Bets line that may continue to grow? And what would be considered to
move something from Other Bets into core Google? Thank you.
<A - Sundar Pichai>: On the deep linking, I would view it as we're beginning to scratch the surface in terms of how
we get at information within apps. What's been exciting to us is all our indications show that when we provide these
deep links, users respond to them the same way they've done with links to websites and the model is working well. On
the second thing, maybe Ruth can...
Company Name: Alphabet Inc
Company Ticker: GOOGL US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 15
<A - Ruth Porat>: Yeah, interesting in the way you framed the question. So, within Other Bets, we have a pretty broad
array of challenges, opportunities that are being tackled, as you know well, from Life Sciences to driverless cars to
what we're doing in Access and Energy. And those we're funding, we've got a very rigorous disciplined approach to
looking at the metrics against which they're performing and growing. But you used a term, when do they move into
Google. And I wouldn't assume that that's the plan. What we're really looking at is how do we continue to broaden the
nature of issues that we're able to address?
What we want with Alphabet is to be an extraordinary magnet, the best magnet for entrepreneurs, and to be an
accelerant for their development, and to give them the kind of environment where we can continue to thrive and
therefore build great businesses that generate tremendous returns as well for our stakeholders on top of solving big
problems. So that doesn't necessarily mean, in fact, we're very much thinking that they will continue to grow and be
independent entities. So, it's a broader view of what is Alphabet.
<Q - Paul Vogel>: Got it. So just to be clear, it's not about that they're sort of newer or smaller or growing, it's just that
they're separate business that will grow on their own separate from the core Google.
<A - Ruth Porat>: Our view is that we are seeding them and they are growing. And we're not predetermining what
ends up happening. There are big opportunities and we're excited to be in a position where we can address them and in
a way that is an incredible magnet for great entrepreneurs.
<Q - Paul Vogel>: Okay. Thank you.
<A - Ruth Porat>: Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from Stephen Ju from Credit Suisse. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
<Q - Stephen Ju>: Okay. Thanks. Sundar, so I think it was on a conference call about three years ago when Larry
articulated a vision of a simple and consistent consumer experience from Google, and the same for your advertising
customers as well. So, as this is your first conference call with investors, where do you think you are on that initiative
today? Are you still on the same path or do you plan to take that in a different direction in your new role?
And, Ruth, despite the high growth of YouTube and Play presumably, your cost of goods sold, where the content costs
of these two businesses live, is not growing as rapidly? So, will you give some color on where you might be driving the
leverage? Thanks.
<A - Sundar Pichai>: Yeah, on the first one, I think the vision that Larry articulated is a very compelling vision, and
it's still valid. To me, the way I think about it is, mobile is a good forcing function in some ways. It's a good constraint
for us to focus and deliver against that vision. So, what I'm doing is internally all our objectives are primarily focused
on mobile and how within the context of mobile we get to a better, simpler and a consistent experience for consumers
and advertisers. And so that framework is how we are thinking about it. And I think we are making solid progress.
<A - Ruth Porat>: And then if you're focusing on the other cost to revenue line, the year-over-year and
quarter-over-quarter growth was driven by ongoing data center operations, including depreciation – that's in there as
well – as well as content acquisition costs, as you said, primarily YouTube and Play. One thing to note as we look
forward to the fourth quarter with the launch of Nexus, Chromecast and Pixel, it's worth noting that we do book the
hardware costs in this line.
<Q - Stephen Ju>: Thank you.
<A - Ruth Porat>: Thanks.
Operator
Company Name: Alphabet Inc
Company Ticker: GOOGL US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 15
Thank you. And our next question comes from Mark May from Citi. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
<Q - Mark A. May>: Thanks. I had two questions that are kind of interrelated around mobile apps. When you talk
about the strength in mobile search, are you including also searches that are done on some of your mobile apps like a
search done on the Maps app or on the mobile YouTube app?
And then kind of somewhat related, I guess, is you have, I think, it's six apps that have over a billion users globally, but
some of these you're not really monetizing today or very nascent stages. Can you talk about kind of your efforts maybe
to monetize some of these large and actively used apps and maybe identify one or two where you're, I guess, this is for
Sundar, where you're particularly sort of excited about the opportunities? Thanks.
<A - Sundar Pichai>: Thanks, Mark. On the first one, I mean we are specifically talking about the mobile search
experience on Google.com or the Google app. But we are seeing the same traction within Maps or YouTube. We are
seeing mobile usage dramatically grow. And in that context, people are searching as well. So, it's across the board we
are seeing strength.
In terms of our apps which have scaled, and obviously we take a very long-term view, and several of those apps today
already play a huge role. So for example, take Google Maps, it already plays a huge important role in making mobile
search better. And so these are interrelated.
YouTube is obviously a big opportunity. Google Play is one. And even things like Gmail are playing a critical role in
Google for Work and how we are driving big business opportunities as well. And by the way, because we are scaling
all these apps over a billion users, we are building the infrastructure, which is what will power our Cloud platform
externally as well. So, in many ways, these are all working for us.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from Colin Sebastian from Robert W. Baird. Your line is now open. Please
go ahead.
<Q - Colin A. Sebastian>: Great. Thanks. I want to ask about two areas of the business mentioned on the call. One is
machine learning. And it's just coming up a lot more frequently as a topic. And I wonder if you could mention more
specifically the vision that you have for some of the core applications and how machine learning can make them more
useful?
And then just for the follow-up to the question on the Google Cloud, and specifically the infrastructure-as-a-service
layer, I wonder there if your strategy is more focused on price or if there are other ways that you can differentiate the
service from the competition. Thank you.
<A - Sundar Pichai>: Machine learning is a core transformative way by which we are rethinking everything we are
doing. We've been investing in this area for a while. We believe we are state-of-the-art here. And the progress,
particularly in the last two years, has been pretty dramatic. And so we are thoughtfully applying it across all our
products, be it search, be it ads, be it YouTube and Play, etc. And we are in early days, but you will see us in a systemic
manner think about how we can apply machine learning to all these areas.
On Cloud, I think the right way to think about it over time for a company or for a developer to build stuff on Cloud,
they need not just basic things like compute and storage, they need a whole set of services on top of it.
So, there is a lot in the stack. And so, I think the way we will differentiate it over time is because we have built large
services on top of our infrastructure, we understand all the layers which you need to build great applications. So, you
will see us increasingly provide value-added services on top of compute and storage. And that's the way I think we'll
play this.
Company Name: Alphabet Inc
Company Ticker: GOOGL US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 15
Operator
Thank you. And that's all the time we have for questions. I would now like to turn the call back to [ph] Ellen West
(54:01) for any closing remarks.
Unidentified Participant
Great. Thanks, everyone, for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you again on our fourth quarter call.
Thank you, and have a good evening.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating on today's conference. This does conclude today's program. You may
all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.