Company Name: Schlumberger
Company Ticker: SLB US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 15
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Simon Farrant
• Simon Ayat
• Paal Kibsgaard
Other Participants
• Ole H. Slorer
• James Carlyle West
• Angie M. Sedita
• William A. Herbert
• Jim D. Crandell
• William David Sanchez
• J. David Anderson
• Scott A. Gruber
• Michael Kirk LaMotte
• Judson E. Bailey
• Kurt Hallead
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Schlumberger Q3 earnings conference call. At
this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode and later we will conduct a question-and-answer session with
instructions being given at that time. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Vice President of Investor Relations, Mr. Simon Farrant.
Please go ahead, sir.
Simon Farrant
Thank you. Good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited third quarter 2015 results conference call.
Today's call is being hosted from New York, following the Schlumberger Limited board meeting yesterday.
Joining us on the call are Paal Kibsgaard, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Simon Ayat, Chief Financial
Officer. Our prepared comments will be provided by Simon and Paal. Simon will first review the financial results, and
then Paal will discuss the operational and technical highlights.
However, before we begin with the opening remarks, I would like to remind the participants that some of the
statements we will be making today are forward looking. These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could cause
our results to differ materially from those in the projected statements. I therefore refer you to our latest 10-K filings and
other SEC filings. Our comments today may also include non-GAAP financial measures. Additional details and
reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in our third quarter press release,
which is on our website. We welcome your questions after the prepared statements.
Company Name: Schlumberger
Company Ticker: SLB US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 15
Now I will turn the call over to Simon.
Simon Ayat
Thank you, Simon. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in this conference call.
Third quarter earnings per share was $0.78. This represents decreases of $0.10 sequentially and $0.71 when compared
to the same quarter last year. Our third quarter revenue of $8.5 billion decreased 6% sequentially. Almost 40% of the
revenue decline was attributable to pricing. Despite the very challenging environment, both in terms of pricing and
activity, pre-tax operating margins only declined by 101 basis points sequentially. This was due to the continued strong
and proactive cost management across the entire organization.
Sequential highlights by product group were as follows. Third quarter Reservoir Characterization revenue of $2.3
billion decreased 5% sequentially, as decreases in exploration spending impacted both wireline and testing services
internationally. Despite the revenue decline, pre-tax operating margins remained essentially flat at 26.3%.
Drilling Group revenue of $3.3 billion decreased 7%, primarily due to pricing pressure and activity declines
internationally that have mostly affected Drilling & Measurements and M-I SWACO. As a result of strong cost
management, Drilling Group margins only declined 94 basis points to 18.6%. Production Group revenue of $3 billion
decreased 5% sequentially, while margins declined 173 basis points. These decreases were primarily driven by pricing
and activity declines in wet services.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole, the effective tax rate was 20% in the third quarter. This was lower than the
previous quarter by about one percentage point due to the geographic mix of earnings between North America and the
rest of the world, as well as the mix of earnings amongst the international GeoMarkets.
Our cash flow generation continues to be very strong. During the third quarter we generated $2.5 billion of cash flow
from operations. During the first three quarters of 2015, we have generated $6.6 billion of cash flow from operations.
This is all despite making severance payments of approximately $150 million during the third quarter and $600 million
during the first nine months of the year. Net debt improved $400 million during the quarter to $5.2 billion.
During the quarter we spent $545 million to repurchase 6.9 million shares at an average price of $78.76. Subsequent to
the announcement of our transaction with Cameron in August, we have been repurchasing the maximum number of
shares allowable under the SEC's regulations.
We filed our S-4 registration statement relating to the acquisition two weeks ago today. It's worth highlighting that once
the SEC declares our registration statement effective and the proxy statement is mailed, we will be prohibited under the
securities laws from repurchasing our stock until the Cameron shareholder vote.
We spent $590 million on CapEx during the third quarter. Full-year 2015 CapEx excluding multiclient and SPM
investments is still expected to be approximately $2.5 billion.
And now I will turn the conference call over to Paal.
Paal Kibsgaard
Thank you, Simon, and good morning, everyone.
Schlumberger third quarter revenue fell 6% sequentially, driven by a continuing decline in rig activity and persistent
pricing pressure throughout our global operations. North America revenue fell 4% sequentially, as we maintained focus
on balancing margins and market share, while international revenue was 7% lower, as customer budget cuts and service
pricing erosion impacted results. Still in the midst of what may well turn out to be the most severe downturn in several
decades, our operating margins were maintained at levels much higher than in previous downturns.
Company Name: Schlumberger
Company Ticker: SLB US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 15
In North America, pre-tax operating margins were held at 8.9% in spite of an additional drop in activity and pricing,
both offshore and on land, while International margins dropped to 23.7%, as customer budget cuts, activity
cancellations, and lower service pricing took further effect.
In the first nine months of 2015, year-over-year revenue has dropped 34% in North America and 18% internationally,
yet we have delivered nine-month decremental operating margins of 34% in North America and 23% internationally,
which represent a strong performance improvement over the 2009 downturn. We have delivered these results by
proactively and decisively managing our cost and resource base, carefully navigating the commercial landscape with
the aim of balancing margins and market share, and at the same time accelerating our internal transformation program.
We also generated more than $1.7 billion in free cash flow in the third quarter, which represents a conversion rate of
170% of the quarter's earnings. Our ability to generate significant free cash flow, even in this part of the cycle, is a
major competitive edge, which we actively use to pursue new business opportunities as well as targeted M&A activity.
In terms of M&A, our main focus in recent months has been the proposed acquisition of Cameron, announced on
August 26, which will open up a significant growth opportunity for us, as we look to establish the industry's first
complete drilling and production systems, spanning both the surface and the subsurface.
In addition we also completed the acquisition of Houston-based T&T Engineering, which specializes in design of land
rig systems, as well as Utah-based Novatek, which is a leader in the field of synthetic diamond innovation. We also
signed a letter of intent for a joint venture with a part of the Bauer Group from Germany in a further evolution of our
land rig of the future strategy. And finally, we entered into an agreement with IBM to jointly provide integrated
production optimization services, combining our production software platform with IBM's enterprise asset management
services in an end-to-end offering.
Looking at our results on a geographical basis, North American revenues decreased 4% sequentially, a figure
considerably less than the 27% sequential decrease seen in the second quarter and better than the 7% drop in the
average horizontal rig count. On land, the revenue drop was driven by lower hydraulic fracturing activity and additional
pricing pressure for both products and services.
In the Gulf of Mexico, revenue declined on lower multiclient seismic sales, exploration rigs transferring to drilling and
completion activities, as well as pricing concessions, which were partly offset by higher new technology sales.
In Western Canada, rig count almost doubled sequentially following the early spring breakup, but was still down by
roughly 52% year over year. In spite of these headwinds, operating margins in North America decreased by only 136
basis points sequentially to 8.9%, and this strong performance is a direct result of our proactive approach to cost and
resource management, the growing effects of our transformation program, strong new technology sales, and efficient
supply chain management.
As service pricing in U.S. land fell further in the third quarter, we continued our approach of concentrating activity in
core areas and for key customers, while proceeding to stack equipment rather than operating at a loss. In the rare event,
we select to pursue work at what we considered non-commercial prices. We view this as an investment decision and
apply the same justification and approval process used for any other reinvestment we do in our business. This has led
us to move equipment and crews between basins, as we look to balance market share with margins and as we pursue
new technology opportunities. We believe that this approach has enabled us to protect our profitability in North
America land and has also helped us maintain our overall infrastructure and long-term ability to service our customers
in this market.
In the International markets, revenue declined 7% sequentially due to further customer budget cuts, rapidly changing
activity, driven by disruptions, delays and cancellations, as well as by further pricing concessions. Third quarter
International operating margin of 23.7% was down 72 basis points sequentially and 83 basis points year over year. Our
nine-month decremental margins were still held to 23%, which represents a marked improvement over the 61% from
the corresponding period in the 2009 downturn, which is a testament to both the strength of our International business
and how well our organization is executing.
Company Name: Schlumberger
Company Ticker: SLB US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 15
Within the International Areas, Middle East and Asia revenue declined by 8% sequentially, while pre-tax operating
margins decreased 171 basis points to 27%. Activity in the Middle East remained robust during the quarter, particularly
in Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Kuwait, but pricing concessions, changes to the activity mix, as well as
project delays had a negative impact on revenue and profitability. Year-over-year Area revenue decreased 20%, while
margins dropped by 61 basis points.
Our lump sum turnkey project in Saudi Arabia continued to progress well, and with steady improvements in drilling
efficiency, well deliveries are now ahead of planned levels. In the United Arab Emirates, robust drilling, production
and seismic activity was boosted by further rig additions and we also recorded strong sales of Petrel and ECLIPSE
software. Drilling activity was also stronger in Kuwait, as rig count increased. However, this was partially offset by
operational delays and an activity shutdown in the neutral zone. In Iraq, we mobilized two rigs for the Zubair lump sum
turnkey project, with the first well already completed, while revenue from the other operations in the country remains
flat with the second quarter.
In Southeast Asia, activity was lower throughout the region, driven by a further drop in work offshore Australia as
projects ended, lower rig count in Malaysia, reduced deepwater exploration and development work in the South China
Sea, and continuing NOC budget cuts on land in China. In Latin America, revenue declined 7% sequentially, while
pre-tax operating margins fell 159 basis points to 20.7%. In Mexico, Argentina and Brazil, activity was further hit by a
combination of delays and budget reductions, while Colombia was weaker due to increased pricing pressure. These
effects were, however, partially offset by steady activity in Venezuela and Ecuador.
Year over year, Area revenue decreased 30% and operating margins decreased by 120 basis points. In Mexico, revenue
dropped again in the third quarter and now stands at an eight-year low as the significant budget cuts further impacted
activity and profitability. At the same time, we began multiclient seismic operations in the Gulf of Campeche, and
awards for the second and third license rounds of the Energy Reform Act remain on schedule. Offshore activity
continued to decline in Brazil, as budget reductions impacted both equipment rentals and field operations. And in
addition to this, revenue was also hit by the weakening of the real. In Venezuela, activity was steady for both PDVSA
and for the heavy oil joint ventures in the Faja, while in Ecuador, SPM activity was flat, as the Shushufindi project
continued to perform in line with expectations.
In Europe, CIS and Africa, revenue fell 6% sequentially, while pre-tax operating margins increased 92 basis points to
22.2%. Year-over-year revenue decreased 31% and margins dropped by 125 basis points. Within the area, the bright
spot in the third quarter was Russia and Central Asia, where revenue continued to increase, with peak summer drilling
activity in Russia, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. This increase was, however, partially offset by a weaker ruble. In the
North Sea, increased drilling in the UK sector was insufficient to counter lower activity in the remote areas and was
further offset by reduced activity in Norway from project delays and cancellations as well as currency weakness.
In sub-Saharan Africa, activity increased in Gabon in the third quarter, but was considerably lower in the rest of the
region, as operations were halted in Chad, exploration work dropped to a new low in Angola, and offshore projects
were canceled in Nigeria. In Algeria and Tunisia, activity was also down in the third quarter, while in Libya, our
operations continued to be limited to one offshore rig.
Turning next to the overall market outlook, we see two-player trends emerging. First, as we entered the last quarter of
the year, the global oil market is still way down by fears of reduced growth in China and the timing and magnitude of
additional Iranian exports. However, the fundamental balance of supply and demand continues to tighten, driven by
both solid global GDP growth and by weakening supply, as the dramatic cuts in E&P investments start to take full
effect. We expect this trend to continue, and as the oil market further recognizes the magnitude of the industry's annual
production replacement challenge, this will gradually translate into improvements in oil prices going forward.
Second, in spite of the expected improvements in oil prices, the market outlook for oilfield services looks challenging
for the coming quarters, as we expect additional reductions in activity and further pressure on service pricing. This is
driven by the financial pressure on many of our customers, where a year of very low oil prices is now exhausting
available cash flow and corresponding capital spending, and also leading them to take a very conservative view on
2016 E&P budgets. In addition to this, the winter season will have the normal negative impact on activity, which, in the
Company Name: Schlumberger
Company Ticker: SLB US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 15
fourth quarter, is unlikely to be offset by the usual year-end sales of software, products and multiclient licenses.
Based on this industry outlook, we expect E&P investments to fall for a second successive year in 2016, which is the
first time since the 1986 downturn, when the spare capacity cushion was more than 10 million barrels per day. In spite
of the need for the industry to increase investment levels to mitigate the pending impact on global supply, we instead
see an increasing likelihood of a timing gap between the expected improvement in oil prices and the subsequent
increase in E&P investments and oilfield services activity. This timing gap or increased response time is a direct
consequence of the dramatic cuts in E&P investments, which have clearly damaged the oil industry's financial strength
and investment appetite, as well as the operating capacity and capability.
So while our macro view has not changed in terms of a tightening supply and demand balance and an expected
improvement in oil prices, we have to factor in that the likely recovery in our activity levels now seems to be a 2017
event. We communicated in our previous earnings call that we were prepared to live with our existing cost base going
forward, provided we were close to the bottom of the market and that the activity recovery was only a couple of
quarters out. As a result, we carried our cost base forward into Q3, which had some negative impact on our operating
margins, and we did not report any exceptional restructuring charges in the quarter.
The likely timing gap between the oil price recovery and the subsequent increase in oilfield services activity, in
combination with a more conservative spending outlook from our customers is causing us to now take further action.
We have therefore decided to proceed with a further round of capacity and overhead reductions, which will result in a
restructuring charge in the fourth quarter. This charge will cover severance costs for additional head count reductions,
reflecting both our updated activity outlook for 2016 and a further streamlining of our support structure.
In addition, and as part of our internal transformation program, we are now ready to initiate a significant restructuring
of our global manufacturing and distribution network, which will also result in a charge in the fourth quarter. Here we
will seize opportunities to streamline our engineering, manufacturing, and sustaining infrastructure by consolidating
sites into clusters both in central locations and in the field, while at the same time, further modernize our processes by
introducing state-of-the-art manufacturing automation in line with the best companies in other high-tech industries.
These changes to our manufacturing and distribution network are closely coordinated with the integration plans for
Cameron, which are already well advanced and which will be quickly implemented once the transaction has closed.
So far in this downturn, we have proactively and decisively managed our cost and resource base, carefully navigated
the commercial landscape with the aim of balancing margins and market share, at the same time as we have actively
accelerated our internal transformation program. With the above actions, we are continuing this prudent approach with
the aim of protecting and extending our solid financial performance into 2016, which is shaping up to be another
challenging year for the oilfield services industry.
We further believe that our ability to respond to higher E&P investments and oilfield activity in 2017 will be improved
by protecting our financial strength in 2016, rather than carrying excessive costs and inefficiencies as we await the
recovery of the oilfield services market. Overall, we remain very confident in our ability to weather this downturn
much better than our surroundings, and through our global reach, the strength of our technology offering and our
transformation program, we are creating a significant financial leverage that will enable us to increase market share,
deliver superior earnings and margins, and continue to generate unmatched levels of free cash flow.
Thank you very much. We will now open up for questions.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Ole Slorer at Morgan Stanley. Please
go ahead.
Company Name: Schlumberger
Company Ticker: SLB US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 15
<Q - Ole H. Slorer>: Oh, thank you very much. Paal, I wonder whether we could just start with the macro and maybe
before that, Simon, congrats with another great set of free cash flow numbers.
<A - Simon Ayat>: Thank you, Ole.
<Q - Ole H. Slorer>: But let's start with the macro for now. Where do you think that the weakening supply has played
out differently or similarly to what you would have thought three months, six months, or 12 months ago in light of
recent CapEx cuts?
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: I think it's playing out more or less as we have expected globally. I think what with you see
within OPEC, there is really no change to overall production capacity. There is a continued shift from spare capacity
into marketed supply. In North America, the production is coming down more or less as expected as well, and
internationally we are starting to see signs of weakening supply as well.
I think in all these three main sources of supply, while production is starting to come down, I think there are also
significant efforts to maximize production within each of these basins by in some cases taking more short-term actions
to maximize production, which might actually have a negative impact on long-term recovery. I think there's only a
limited period that this can be done. And while the various players exhaust these type of opportunities, if investments
aren't increased, I think you will see a further acceleration of the drop in production.
<Q - Ole H. Slorer>: The timing of that acceleration, do you have a view on that?
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: No, it's still a bit difficult to say. But I think there are clear signs now in all – at least in North
America and non-NAM and OPEC that production is weakening, and we expect that to continue and potentially
accelerate in the event the investments aren't increased.
<Q - Ole H. Slorer>: Okay, thanks for that. Just based on what you highlight here with respect to CapEx trends
irrespective of oil prices, just having a shot at your fourth quarter and first quarter next year, with a 10% EPS reduction
into the fourth quarter and another 5% into the first quarter, would that be a reasonable trajectory?
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Let me say this. Q4 looks challenging and visibility has actually dropped in the past month or
two now. So from an activity standpoint in Q4, we will see the start of the winter slowdown in the Northern
Hemisphere. We also see further budget cuts in several of the key offshore markets such as sub-Sahara Africa, Brazil,
and the Far East. We also expect rig activity in North America land to be down in Q4 due to the financial stress on
many of our customers there, and we expect very limited year-end sales of product software and multiclient. So EPS
will drop. But due to the lack of the visibility we have now, Ole, I'm not really ready to commit to a number. But I will
also say that Q1, in spite of Q4 not having the seasonal uptick in year-end sales, we also see Q1 being below Q4.
<Q - Ole H. Slorer>: Okay, that makes sense. Thanks a lot.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Thanks, Ole.
Operator
Thank you. We'll go next to the line of James West with Evercore ISI.
<Q - James Carlyle West>: Hey, good morning, Paal.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Good morning.
<Q - James Carlyle West>: Paal, so we've now pushed out the recovery to 2017, but I wonder if you could elaborate a
little more on how you see 2016 playing out. Clearly you just mentioned 1Q is going to be below 4Q. Does that mark
the bottom in earnings and we're going sideways for most of next year, or is there the potential for a second half modest
upturn?
Company Name: Schlumberger
Company Ticker: SLB US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 15
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: We hope that Q1 will represent the bottom and there will be a gradually but slow recovery
during the year or even sideways. I think it's still too early to say, James. I think we have – even for Q4 now, there are
significant uncertainties in several of the markets on what's going to happen. Beyond that, we clearly see Q1 being
below Q4, but visibility even on Q1 is still very low. So I would hope that what you depict will be the case, but I think
it's too early to say. But I would say also that there's a limit to how long these reductions in investment and activity can
continue. And I think as the oil price now likely will start to move upwards, hopefully investments will turn around, but
anything meaningful will be late 2016 and into 2017 as we see that for today.
<Q - James Carlyle West>: Okay, got you. And then, Paal, you specifically called out M&A in the press release last
night, and you had a number of smaller deals in addition to Cameron this quarter – or last quarter, excuse me. Are you
preparing the market for something additional of size, or is this just highlighting the fact that you guys are generating
tons of cash, you've got huge flexibility?
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: It's the latter. We're not preparing the market for anything other than we focus significantly our
entire organization on generating free cash. Margins are a key ingredient to generate cash. So both of those are key
focus areas for us in terms of protecting and extending our strong financial performance. And obviously in this type of
market, companies that can generate significant free cash have a broad range of opportunities, and I think we've shown
so far in the downturn that we will be opportunistic. What opportunities are there and which ones we will convert, we
will report back to you when we have converted them. But as of now, we will continue to be opportunistic, but there's
no preparation or any message beyond that.
<Q - James Carlyle West>: Okay, got it. Thanks, Paal.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Thank you.
Operator
We'll go next to the line of Angie Sedita with UBS.
<Q - Angie M. Sedita>: Thanks. Good morning, guys.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Good morning.
<Q - Angie M. Sedita>: And again, impressive free cash flow and decrementals there versus the peer group. So, Paal,
in your prepared remarks you talked a little bit about the outlook for 2016 as far as E&P spending, and I know it's
obviously early to have much granularity. But where we have less visibility is internationally. And maybe you could
just give us some color there on what you're hearing with your conversations with your customers around the world as
far as the spending outlook for 2016 both land and offshore.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: We don't have a lot of granularity, Angie. It's still just broad-based statements. Most of our
customers haven't completed or just barely started their budgeting process for 2016. But the general feedback is very
consistent, and that is they expect the vast majority of them that spend will be lower. So I can't give you granularity of
geography or land and offshore. I would say though that the part of the world that is still very, very resilient is
obviously the GCC countries in the Middle East. So I'm not expecting anything significant there in terms of lower
investments. But broad-based pretty much everywhere else, there are significant challenges, and we expect 2016
budgets to be below 2015.
<Q - Angie M. Sedita>: Okay, that's helpful. And then if you think about the U.S. and obviously it's a smaller market
for you, but if you think about the U.S., and you've said on a number of occasions that the pricing is unsustainably low,
and as we all know, many of these smaller companies are free cash flow negative. How do you think this plays out in
2016 going into 2017? Could even a modest increase in activity and oil prices lead to even modest improvements in
pricing, or how do you think this plays out, any thoughts?
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: I'm not very optimistic on any turnaround in service and product pricing for oilfield services in
North America land. I think, yes, many of the small companies or most of the small companies are free cash flow
Company Name: Schlumberger
Company Ticker: SLB US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 15
negative. They are under significant financial stress and maybe some of them will go bankrupt in the coming quarters
or in the coming year, but there is still massive overcapacity. And even the small companies that go bankrupt will likely
be picked up by other investors, and their assets will be returned back into the market. So, no, I think the overcapacity
is going to be with the industry for quite a considerable amount of time. So I don't expect any real improvement in
service and product pricing in the coming year in North America land.
<Q - Angie M. Sedita>: All right, great. Thanks, I will turn it over.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We will go next to the line of Bill Herbert with Simmons & Company.
<Q - William A. Herbert>: Thank you, good morning. I'm wondering if we could talk a little bit about the flexibility
of the U.S. upstream value chain here as we're getting deeper into this downturn. And I mean the supposition has been
and perhaps continues to be that once the recovery narrative is embraced by the industry that the industry can respond
quickly and assertively to an increase in spending and activity. Do we still think that's the case given the duress of the
industry and the fact that many are not only cutting into fat and muscle, but now bone?
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: So I think the industry – sorry, I think the market is probably overestimating how quickly the
industry can respond, whether it's in North America or internationally. I think the fact that now four quarters into very
low oil prices, the financial strength of many of our customers is significantly weakened and their appetite to invest is
also a bit down, and any improvement in oil prices, I think, will be to – initially is going to go towards strengthening
the balance sheet and then the oil companies will likely assess how sustainable are these increases in oil prices before
they start investing.
So there's a delay, I believe, between an improvement in oil prices and the decision to increase budgets. And then
there's going to be a further delay between increasing budgets and realizing that into higher oilfield activity. And then
there's going to be a delay in between higher oil activity and higher production. So I think the market is
underestimating how long this period is going to take, and just the fact that the industry is again looking to reduce
investments when we have the significant pending supply impact coming, just shows that, I think, we even have an
increasing chance of a potential spike in oil prices if investments aren't increased in time.
<Q - William A. Herbert>: Okay. And then secondly – so given the duress that you are prophesying here for the next
several quarters, notwithstanding the fact that your decrementals in Q3 were still very laudable, they trended higher.
And I am just curious as to whether we see accelerating decrementals over the next quarters or do they stabilize, or
what's your view with regard to the roadmap on that front?
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: In terms of our decrementals, we are working flat out to continue to manage them along the
levels that you have seen so far this year. So we are not giving up on that. We have continuous efforts, both in reducing
cost and capacity, as well as creating more leverage to offset pricing from our transformation. So we are going to
continue to work very hard at delivering continuously very strong decrementals. We see that as very important to sort
of maintain our financial strength and also to help us generate the strong free cash flow that you have seen so far this
year.
<Q - William A. Herbert>: Okay. Thank you.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Thank you.
Operator
We will go next to the line of Jim Crandell at Cowen.
Company Name: Schlumberger
Company Ticker: SLB US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 15
<Q - Jim D. Crandell>: Good morning.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Good morning.
<Q - Jim D. Crandell>: Paal, based on maybe a more limited sample size, we seem to see a number of companies
calling for 20% to 30% reductions in their CapEx for 2016. Is that a range that you think is reasonable at this point?
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: I think full year 2016 over full year 2015, that sounds like a high number. At this stage, I don't
think it's going to be as much as that, no.
<Q - Jim D. Crandell>: And based on your conversations with managements of some of the NOCs, would you think
that the NOCs in Latin America, West Africa and Asia would be still one of the weakest points in the market? I notice
that Angola is cutting the spending by 50% next year. And do you think that's going to be indicative of some of the
NOCs in those regions?
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: That number again I think is high, but I think the fact that this customer group has cut
significantly this year and would likely go down potentially further next year I think is a reasonable assumption. But
again, my commentary on 2016 is based on very high level discussions, and I don't have details of what budgets and
what numbers are going to be. Other than that, it seems to be a consensus that that overall spend will be down. I think
your 20% to 30% is very high. It's likely to be less than that, but still expected to be down.
<Q - Jim D. Crandell>: And in a declining market, how do you think that that affects the market share of integrated
services for Schlumberger?
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: I don't think it has a direct impact on anything in terms of up or down. There continues to be a
broad range of integration type of opportunities. We are pursuing all of them, whether this is all the way from bundled
services from a few of our product lines, all the way up to full turnkey lump sum contracts as well as SPM
opportunities. So nothing dramatic in terms of a shift of integration opportunities. It continues to be a key part of what
we offer and there's a generally growing appetite from all customer groups to engage in those type of contracts.
<Q - Jim D. Crandell>: Good. Okay, thank you.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Thank you.
Operator
We'll go next to the line of Bill Sanchez at Howard Weil. Please go ahead.
<Q - William David Sanchez>: Thanks. Good morning, Paal.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Good morning.
<Q - William David Sanchez>: Paal, I want to try to understand a bit more from you the magnitude of the pricing
declines internationally that you are seeing and what the duration from here is going to be. And I guess specifically
kind of where are we now – or where are you, I should say, in working through all of your contract renegotiations with
your customers?
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: I can't give you a number, Bill, on this, other than I think it's clear that the pricing impact
internationally, although it is significant to our operations, it is still significantly lower than what we have seen in North
America – in North America land. I would say that round one of the pricing discussions is complete. There might be
more coming in the coming quarters, and I think as long as oil prices are down and the outlook is still relatively
somber, then there is a constant pressure on pricing internationally as well as in North America land.
So we continue to work through that. We bid competitively on the tenders that are out there. Customers that are looking
to renegotiate, we engage in those discussions. And obviously we are trying to minimize and protect how we – what we
concede in these type of discussions, but that's a call we make in each situation around what market share we are
Company Name: Schlumberger
Company Ticker: SLB US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 15
looking at, what kind of terms and conditions we can get for some of these things and how we look at the overall
business that we run. This is a normal part of business. When there is overcapacity, there is pressure on pricing and
that's part of what we do for a living to manage that.
<Q - William David Sanchez>: Do past renegotiations that you, for lack of a better term, have kind of settled with
your customers, do those get reopened here as we go into 2016, or these are just incremental discussions that you are
still having on contracts that really haven't been negotiated to this point or renegotiated at this point?
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: I think it's a mix of all of it, Bill. I think you see it in North America land, you see it in
International. Overcapacity, there is a continuous pricing discussion until we hit the bottom of the market, and then it
stabilizes and then we look upwards from there. So there is a mix of renegotiations of contracts already discussed and
some of them which haven't been – have not been changed already. So there is a combination of all of it.
<Q - William David Sanchez>: Okay. Simon, a follow-up for you or a question for you. Can you give us an idea of
when the share repurchase blackout period will begin for you?
<A - Simon Ayat>: Okay. So, as I mentioned in my remarks, once we file the S-4 and it is accepted, there will be a
blackout period. I'm expecting it to be about four weeks to five weeks and it could start maybe early November.
<Q - William David Sanchez>: Okay. And I guess we would expect repurchases to take place up until that point?
<A - Simon Ayat>: Yeah. Now, I'd like to take this opportunity just to remind you that, first, we are issuing a large
number of shares and the number of shares that will be issued, it's going to take place by our U.S.-based subsidiary.
You're going to see a large movement in the capital structure of Schlumberger between our U.S. subsidiary and the
parent company. In other words, the U.S. subsidiary will be the one acquiring Cameron, and as a result is going to
acquire the shares from the parent company.
So you are going to see eventually when we close the transaction of Cameron, a large swing in the capital structure
between the U.S.-based subsidiary, our parent company, because of the structure of the acquisition. And this would
require the U.S. subsidiary, as I said, to acquire shares from the parent company. So there will be a large movement of
cash from the U.S.-based subsidiary into the parent company. But when times will come, we will explain it to you in
more details and how it's going to work out.
<Q - William David Sanchez>: Great. I appreciate the time. I will turn it back.
<A - Simon Ayat>: Sure.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Thank you.
Operator
We will go next to the line of David Anderson with Barclays. Please go ahead.
<Q - J. David Anderson>: Thanks. Paal, I was hoping you could expand a bit more on what you see on the exploration
front. In the commentary, you noted Gulf of Mexico continued to transition. Now West Africa is starting to roll those
exploration programs in. What's the mindset of your customers at this point in terms of where that fits in the portfolio?
You talked first and foremost about the balance sheets, obviously dividends. But is it just about getting development
costs down first and is exploration just pushed out? How does that fit in terms of your vision for the next couple years?
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: I think what you're saying is correct. The focus on driving costs down is on development, and
exploration is basically eliminated. That's how I think many customers look at it. There are significant cuts in
exploration activity, and they continue both for seismic and for drilling. The Q3 exploration rig count was down about
25% year over year and the seismic spend was also down in excess of 30%, and that's following a pretty low year in
2014 as well. So it is very challenging for exploration activity for us. But again, the impact of this is still fully absorbed
in our results, which are still reasonably good. So yes, in summary, our customers are more or less cutting completely
Company Name: Schlumberger
Company Ticker: SLB US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 15
exploration and focusing a lot more on driving further costs out of the development.
<Q - J. David Anderson>: And on that side, on the development, as you integrate OneSubsea into Schlumberger, there
seems to be a pretty big opportunity to pull on the rest of Schlumberger to help bring down development costs. So as I
think about you leaning on your reservoir expertise and well design capabilities, how receptive have customers been so
far to Schlumberger taking a greater role in that offshore development? It would seem to be it's a pretty big mindset
change for your customers. Is that happening? Do you feel confident in that? Do you think projects can actually move
ahead in 2016 because of that, or is that a little too optimistic in terms of the timing?
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: It might be slightly optimistic on the timing. But I think – so first of all, many of the things that
you mentioned in terms of bringing together the capabilities of Schlumberger and OneSubsea is already happening. But
obviously, we can accelerate and have an even further impact on this as we close the transaction and take full
management of OneSubsea. But I'm very pleased with the progress that OneSubsea has made and the close working
relationship we've had with OneSubsea from the Schlumberger side.
But I think over time and maybe not already in 2016, there is significant cost reduction potential for the deepwater, I
think both when it comes to the well costs as well as for the overall infrastructure. I think we can simplify, we can
standardize, we can engineer costs out of the system. And what that will allow, if you can, for instance, reduce the well
costs by, say, 30%, you can potentially build four wells for the price of three wells, which again will help you increase
production and the recovery from the deepwater fields, which obviously will help lower cost per barrel and improve the
economics. So I think we are in very, very early innings in terms of driving down costs for deepwater, both production
and the drilling part of it. And I think what we are doing now with the Cameron acquisition is going to address both
those dimensions.
<Q - J. David Anderson>: Great, thank you.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Thanks.
Operator
We'll go next to the line of Scott Gruber at Citi.
<Q - Scott A. Gruber>: Good morning.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Good morning.
<Q - Scott A. Gruber>: Turning back to international decrementals, you guys continued to post very impressive
figures during this down cycle. But at what rate of upstream spending decline abroad would those 25% – 30%
decrementals be at risk of rising? I know there's not a lot of clarity on exactly how spending will turn out next year. But
if spending is down 15%, would you start to become concerned, or would it take a steeper drop to really threaten those
decrementals?
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Are you talking about 2016 spending?
<Q - Scott A. Gruber>: Correct.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: We have delivered I think very strong financial performance in the international market now
for a number of years. In 2014 we generated 69% incrementals on quite limited revenue growth, and so far 23%
decrementals on 18% drop in revenue this year. So our performance so far this year is not a fluke. We have been very
good at managing our international business.
So I am expecting that even with still further headwinds in terms of top lines in 2016, we should be able to continue to
hold the decrementals at a very respectable level. Whether they're going to be at 23% or slightly higher is a bit difficult
to say. But in terms of offsetting activity reductions through cost cutting, I think we've proven that we can do that. And
beyond that, it is how much leverage we can generate from the transformation to offset pricing. So both of those, we
Company Name: Schlumberger
Company Ticker: SLB US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 15
are very active on trying to deliver both of those type of results, and we are going to go very hard at it for 2016 to
continue to deliver strong decrementals internationally.
<Q - Scott A. Gruber>: Got it. And then you already touched on the need for customers to repair their balance sheets,
which will likely contribute to the delay in activity recovery. Is there also an oil price threshold that you have in mind
that needs to be achieved before your customers start to increase CapEx? Do we need to see $65 Brent or $70 Brent? At
what level do you think customers are comfortable expanding their budgets, even if there is some delay?
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: No, I don't have a specific oil price number in mind. I think it's going to be much more a
function of how sustainable our customers see the increases in oil prices to be. And I think it's more about having a
stable basis for increasing investments before they go ahead and do it. I still think that there's going to be conservatism
based on the very tough four quarters that the industry has gone through at this stage, and that's why again we are
basically saying that there is going to be a lag between higher oil prices and investments and even a lag between higher
investments and realizable oil flow activity.
Operator
Anything further, Mr. Gruber?
<Q - Scott A. Gruber>: No, that's it. Got it, thanks.
Operator
Thank you.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Thank you.
Operator
We'll go next to the line of Michael LaMotte with Guggenheim.
<Q - Michael Kirk LaMotte>: Thanks. Good morning, Paal. If I could follow up just on transformation quickly and
ask you to expand upon two areas in particular, first, your comments on the reorganization of the manufacturing
operations and how long that is expected to take. And if you could, quantify the gross margin benefit perhaps of that
effort. And then secondly, in the press release, this is the first time we've seen the references to the multiskilling. So if
you could give us an update in terms of where we are in the progress of that effort as well?
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: On the transformation around the global manufacturing and distribution, the charge we are
taking is for consolidating facilities, moving much more towards campuses and clusters, and also the introduction of
some new automation manufacturing type of technology. Similarly, we are also looking to consolidate how we do
global distribution, going more from a global and local setup to a much more regional setup in terms of how we
manage that.
So the process of getting it done, we have already embarked on, and there are some charges associated with this that we
will take in the fourth quarter and we will continue implementing that program in 2016 and 2017, so I am not going to
be able to give you a specific impact on margins and what this is going to generate for us, although with that, we are
very excited about doing this. It's going to modernize a core part of the company and it's going to make us even more
competitive in the International market.
Now, in terms of multiskilling, this is part of how we are continuing to drive people productivity. There's many other
aspects of what we do there. We have remote operations as another key part of this as well, where we can centralize
much more of our expertise and have them oversee more jobs centrally, rather than being at the well site as well. So all
of these elements are a key part of the transformation program and we are still not at the halfway point of rolling this
Company Name: Schlumberger
Company Ticker: SLB US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 15
out globally, and for it to have the full impact on our operations and our results.
So there's still a lot of runway left in both the multiskilling, the remote operations and what we're going to do on
manufacturing and distribution, as well as all other parts of the transformation. So we are excited about it, and there is a
strong pull from the entire organization on this and we continue to work hard in implementing it.
<Q - Michael Kirk LaMotte>: Great, thank you, and if I could ask a follow-up quickly to Simon. Would you be
perhaps – I noticed debt came down, total debt came down in the third quarter from the second quarter. During the
blackout, would you be using free cash flow to further pay down debt or can we just assume that cash builds on the
balance sheet in that interim?
<A - Simon Ayat>: Good question, Michael. Some of the – most of our debt, actually, is a fixed debt. So we do have a
certain percentage, which is more reflective of commercial papers, et cetera. This will go down. But as I said earlier,
and I'd like to repeat this, that you are going to see a large movement in our capital structure. And perhaps eventually
we will have a little bit more debt associated with the transaction coming from our North America or our U.S.-based
subsidiary, and this to acquire the shares from the parent company. So you are going to see a different type of
movement, and eventually there will be larger debt that we will have in the U.S. subsidiary in order to acquire the
shares.
<Q - Michael Kirk LaMotte>: Post-close.
<A - Simon Ayat>: During the blackout period, as you highlighted, it will reflect into a reduction in the debt, which is
the current debt that is reflected in the CP program that we issue on later date.
<Q - Michael Kirk LaMotte>: Great. Thanks, Simon.
<A - Simon Ayat>: Thanks, Michael.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Thank you.
Operator
We'll go next to the line of Jud Bailey with Wells Fargo Securities.
<Q - Judson E. Bailey>: Thanks, good morning.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Good morning.
<Q - Judson E. Bailey>: Wanted to, Paal, ask you about a couple of different markets. Outside of North America, it
seems like Latin America continues to trend as one of the more difficult International markets. Could you maybe
comment on Mexico and also particularly on Brazil given all the issues going on with Petrobras and some of the
contract renegotiations and how you are thinking about that market and how it may impact you in 2016?
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Both markets, as you pointed out, both Mexico and Brazil have been very challenging this
year. Mexico even more than Brazil, I would say. So there's been significant budget reductions and they have continued
throughout the year. Like I mentioned in my prepared remarks, our Q3 revenues now stand at an eight-year low, which
is quite remarkable for a sizable market, as Mexico is for us. So in terms of next year, it's still very early for both of
these countries, Mexico and Brazil. But I think it's still going to be challenging as we enter into 2016. I don't have a lot
of details of it yet, but no positive signs either from PEMEX or from Petrobras at this stage.
<Q - Judson E. Bailey>: Okay, thank you. And my follow-up is on just to circle back on International pricing.
Understanding you are kind of done with round one, but as you kind of look at the market today, is pricing getting – is
it starting to decline worse than it did earlier in the year or is there any sign of it stabilizing, or do you get the sense that
the pricing is slipping even more? And are there any particular markets internationally where you are seeing more
pricing pressure than others?
Company Name: Schlumberger
Company Ticker: SLB US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 15
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: No, it is not, I would say, slipping further. It's just there's a continuing pricing pressure in this
part of the cycle. It's quite normal. There's nothing special about it. And as long as the outlook is negative, then there
will be continued pricing pressure. Every bid that is out, there is even increased competition to get it and that creates
the downward pricing pressure. So nothing exceptional. I don't see it accelerating. Other than that, it's not going away
and we will just continue to manage it and navigate it the way we have been doing so far in the downturn.
<Q - Judson E. Bailey>: Great, thank you.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Thank you.
Operator
And the last question will come from Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital.
<Q - Kurt Hallead>: Hey, good morning.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Good morning, Kurt.
<Q - Kurt Hallead>: So just I'm curious, Paal, what you think about the – going back to the M&A dynamic, that
Eurasia deal fell through. Is that something that still could come back on the table at some point going forward? And
when you think more broadly about M&A, is the Schlumberger interest right now more in some geographic
opportunities or is it in some product-specific areas, generally speaking?
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: No, just to say, the Eurasia deal, first of all, obviously we were disappointed that we couldn't
get it closed within the several extensions of the timeline that we agreed with Eurasia, but that deal is now closed for
us. So I don't really have any more comments on that.
In terms of other M&A, we continue to be opportunistic. I can't go into details of that will entail or what we may or
may not do, other than that we have a broad view of the entire market and what opportunities are there, what we are
interested in, and we continue to evaluate companies on a monthly basis, and if there's a willing seller and a good price,
then we might be able to do something more. But it's still too early to say.
So I can't promise anything or I can't make any further comments on what may happen, other than that we continue to
be active in assessing the market and look for opportunities to further extend and strengthen our portfolio, and we keep
generating the cash to allow us to do that.
<Q - Kurt Hallead>: Okay, that's great. I'll keep it there, and we'll see you in a little bit.
<A - Paal Kibsgaard>: Very good.
Paal Kibsgaard
All right. So before we close this morning, I would like to summarize the three most important points we have
discussed. First, while the business environment clearly got worse in the third quarter, our focus on cost management
and transformation has enabled us to deliver strong financial performance and generate significant liquidity, which is a
clear competitive edge in this part of the cycle.
Second, our forward visibility has again been reduced, and we will consequently revert back to managing the company
quarter-by-quarter. This means a further round of capacity and overhead reductions in the fourth quarter as we adjust
resources to a lower activity outlook. At the same time, we will continue to accelerate our transformation program with
the next step being a significant restructuring of our global manufacturing and distribution network, which will further
modernize a core part of our company.
And third, our outlook for the oil market remains unchanged with a continuing tightening of the supply and demand
balance as the dramatic cuts in E&P investments start to take full effect, ultimately leading to an increase in oil prices.
Company Name: Schlumberger
Company Ticker: SLB US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 15
Given the conservative view our customers are taking on 2016 investment levels and the general state of the industry
following a year of low oil prices, we see an increasing likelihood of a timing gap between higher oil prices and the
subsequent increase in E&P investment and oilfield activity. In this environment, we continue to proactively manage
our business to preserve our financial strength into 2016, which will allow us to better navigate the market uncertainty
and to respond faster to new business opportunities and ultimately higher activity.
Thank you for participating.
Operator
Thank you. And, ladies and gentlemen, today's conference will be available for replay after 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time
today, running through November 16 at midnight.
You may access the AT&T replay system by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 365406.
International participants may dial 320-365-3844. Those numbers again are 1-800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844, with
the access code of 365406. That does conclude your conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for
using the AT&T Executive TeleConference Service. You may now disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.