Company Name: UnitedHealth
Company Ticker: UNH US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 18
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Stephen J. Hemsley
• Larry C. Renfro
• David Scott Wichmann
• Daniel J. Schumacher
• Steven Nelson
• Mark A. Thierer
• Bill Miller
• Dirk McMahon
• Jeff Alter
Other Participants
• Peter Heinz Costa
• Matthew Richard Borsch
• Joshua R. Raskin
• Sarah James
• Sheryl R. Skolnick
• Michael J. Baker
• David Howard Windley
• Andy Schenker
• Chris Rigg
• A.J. Rice
• Kevin Mark Fischbeck
• Sean W. Wieland
• Gary P. Taylor
• Ralph Giacobbe
• Ana A. Gupte
• Christine M. Arnold
• Tom A. Carroll
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning. I will be your conference operator today. Welcome to UnitedHealth Group's Third Quarter 2015
Earnings Conference Call. A question-and-answer session will follow UnitedHealth Group's prepared remarks. As a
reminder, this call is being recorded.
Here are some important introductory information. This call contains forward-looking statements under U.S. Federal
Securities Laws. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
materially from historical experience or present expectations. A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can
be found in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the cautionary statements
included in our current and periodic filings. Information presented on this call is contained in the earnings release we
issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated October 15, 2015, which may be accessed from the Investors page of
Company Name: UnitedHealth
Company Ticker: UNH US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 18
the company's website.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group, Stephen Hemsley.
Please, go ahead.
Stephen J. Hemsley
Good morning, and thank you for joining us to review UnitedHealth Group's third quarter results. Our business
continues to grow, as we develop and respond to large and emerging market opportunities across both the health care
benefits and services sectors. Health care markets worldwide continue to evolve with nations and market participants of
all types seeking to build better health care systems that are more informed and modern, lower-cost, simpler, and more
responsive to consumers.
Organizations throughout health care are searching for ways to improve by leveraging data and information to more
effectively deliver quality care that is measurable and deliver with greater precision and consistency in response to
ever-increasing pressures around cost, access, and transparency. We have consciously positioned UnitedHealthcare,
Optum and UnitedHealth Group to deliver practical innovation and significant value in this environment.
UnitedHealth Group's third quarter revenues grew 26.6% year-over-year to $41.5 billion, including strong 10% organic
revenue growth across our businesses. Consolidated net earnings of $1.65 per share were in line with our expectations,
as was the net earnings margin which decreased by just over 1% year-over-year, reflecting the greater mix of pharmacy
care services, as well as early-stage lower-margin individual exchange business, lower levels of reserve development
and accelerated investments in improving Medicare Stars quality, principally closing gaps in care for the seniors we
serve.
Year-to-date, we have grown net earnings per share by 14% on revenue growth of 17%. Our return on equity of 19%
reflects the balanced use of capital and organic initiatives to build our business. Quarter-end days claims payable
increased 2 days sequentially and 1 day year-over-year, and cash flows from operations continued to be strong at more
than 170% of net income this quarter. Year-to-date cash flows of $6.2 billion have grown by 11% and represent a
strong 135% of net income for the nine-month period.
I will ask Larry Renfro to provide a review of Optum, and then Dave Wichmann will cover UnitedHealthcare and some
UnitedHealth Group Enterprise comments. Larry, you want to take it?
Larry C. Renfro
Sure. Thanks, Dave. Optum continues to innovate, to address rising market needs, particularly those of larger, more
sophisticated organizations, which have complex health care service, delivery and management challenges. Our
businesses are producing strong, sustainable growth across the board.
Optum's revenues of $19.3 billion grew 61% year-over-year this quarter. Our results include Catamaran within
OptumRx results for the first time, and reflect exceptional overall organic revenue growth of 15%. OptumHealth and
OptumInsight together grew revenues by more than $1 billion, or 25% year-over-year, to more than $5 billion this
quarter. Third quarter operating margin of 5.9% reflects the increased mix of pharmacy care services revenues, as well
as integration and intangible amortization cost related to Catamaran. Both OptumHealth and OptumInsight delivered
double-digit percentage operating margins in the quarter.
We continue to focus on the opportunities to dramatically elevate value for customers in five large growth markets;
clinical care, pharmacy care services, information and technology solutions, government services, and international.
Our One Optum approach means we build strong, strategic and senior enterprise-level relationships that transcend
individual product categories and point solutions. We start by listening closely to our clients, so we understand the
issues from their perspective. We then bring deep experience, creativity, strategic partnerships and our own
differentiated capabilities in health care combined with responsive and practical operational solutions. This can lead to
Company Name: UnitedHealth
Company Ticker: UNH US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 18
working sessions which often lead to pipeline, backlog, and revenues and earnings.
Optum360 is a good case in point. It has grown to 7,500 employees serving 1,600 hospitals, and is helping manage
more than $50 billion of their billings. Just last week, customers surveyed by the Black Book, a leading research
organization, ranked Optum360 offerings as the best in the three key product categories for the sector. And we are still
in the early stages as hospitals and health systems shift to professionally managed revenue approaches.
Domestically and in other nations, we are in discussions with high-profile health care organizations regarding our wide
range of technology and information-enabled services. We are exploring significant opportunities to serve the health
care needs of U.S. Federal Government programs and talking with prominent health care organizations about
innovative technology infrastructure and application services, and a comprehensive suite of technology-enabled payer
services. Any one or more of these has potential to develop into a multi-year, multi-billion-dollar strategic relationship.
Across Optum, this type of proactive approach is driving positive results. Third quarter backlog for OptumInsight
exceeds $10 billion in value and grew 34% year-over-year on an external basis. Our pipeline is continuing to grow at
an exceptional rate as well. The median deal size for OptumHealth has doubled over the past three years. We are
delivering more care to more people through more payers at OptumCare. We now deliver care to more than 7 million
people annually through our OptumCare businesses.
Market interest in OptumRx continues to grow in response to the value we can drive through more integrated
downstream drug benefit and care management efforts, especially around the growing specialty pharmaceutical
segment. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has authorized agencies under its purview to conduct
innovative healthcare research with Optum Labs using Optum Labs' Big Data resources. These indicators should help
give you a sense of both our continuing progress and the meaningful opportunities we are developing. We will continue
to execute on the details for our clients with a focus on quality and service, and further build our growing reputation for
being the trusted partner that gets the job done. We are optimistic about the prospects for Optum in 2016, 2017 and
beyond.
Now, let me turn it over to Dave.
David Scott Wichmann
Thank you, Larry. UnitedHealthcare continues to differentiate its products on the foundations of distinctive quality,
service, innovation and value. As a result, UnitedHealthcare has grown domestically to serve nearly 300,000 more
people in the third quarter, 1.5 million more people this year, and nearly 1.7 million more people over the past 12
months. We enter 2016 with even more distinctive products, capabilities and relationships, and we expect to continue to
deliver impressive levels of growth next year as well.
UnitedHealthcare's third quarter revenues of $32.8 billion grew year-over-year by $2.8 billion or 9.2%, all organic. The
UnitedHealthcare operating margin of 5.7% decreased as expected, declining just over 1% year-over-year due to lower
levels of reserve development, solid growth in early-stage lower-margin public insurance exchange products, and
increased investments in Medicare Stars quality.
We continue to expect a full-year consolidated care ratio of 80.8% plus or minus 50 basis points, likely above the
midpoint of that range based on our year-to-date experience. The annual care ratio is being modestly affected by the
performance of our new public exchange benefit programs, which now serve nearly 550,000 people. Like others, we
observed market-wide data this past spring that suggested the risk pool served by public exchanges would require more
medical services than original expectations.
Rather than wait for our own experience with our new members to fully develop, we increased rates and repositioned
certain products market-by-market for 2016, and we expect improved performance next year. We will expand to 11
new markets in 2016 and we continue to expect exchanges to develop and mature over time into a strong, viable growth
market for us.
Company Name: UnitedHealth
Company Ticker: UNH US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 18
We have accelerated the uptake of our medical care quality programs to achieve Star ratings beyond the strongly
improved levels CMS recently published for payment year 2017. Our Medicare Stars improvement does come with a
related increase in medical costs. We are confident we have implemented the necessary steps to achieve our goal of
80% or more of our members in four-Star or greater programs by payment year 2018. Star quality improvements will
strengthen our reimbursement rates in 2016, 2017 and 2018, enrich our Medicare Advantage programs' benefit
offerings and further our growth and financial position.
Our 2015 commercial medical cost trend outlook continues to be biased towards the lower portion of our 5.5% to 6.5%
full-year forecast. In total, UnitedHealthcare has maintained a nearly 6% operating margin year-to-date in 2015,
identical to the year-to-date margin at this point in 2014. Driven by year-to-date organic revenue growth of more than
$9 billion, UnitedHealthcare has advanced earnings from operations by $540 million, which is a growth rate of more
than 10%. All three of our benefits businesses are producing strong results.
Let's turn to a review of a couple examples that illustrate how we work locally and use technology to serve the two
most important participants in healthcare, the doctor and the patient. We are increasingly aligned with physicians and
hospitals, and we continue on our course to deliver $65 billion or more in care annually by 2018 through value-based
care contracts. Today, these programs touch as many as 13 million of our consumers, delivered in part through more
than 650 accountable care arrangements. This includes growth of more than 160 new accountable care arrangements so
far this year alone.
In many instances, these care providers and UnitedHealthcare bring in Optum to help them manage population risk and
improve operational performance on a more systematic organization-wide basis. Larry has given you a feel for how this
trend positively affects demand for Optum's services. Let me give you a few more examples. Together with Optum, we
are also supporting physicians' operational needs with Link, which we have discussed before.
Link is a cloud-based digital platform that provides secure workspace and connectivity between physician offices and
health plans, enabling them to efficiently communicate and transact business. By year-end 2015, Link will be serving
more than 600,000 physicians nationwide. We offer them connectivity to 75 distinct, dedicated applications relevant to
their operations. We continue to grow both the installed customer base and the portfolio of applications and
capabilities. Our goal is to fully serve physicians' practices with core transactions and information exchange, as well as
scheduling, referral processes, transparency and other services.
On the patient side with Optum, we increasingly focus on the local community and deliver care and services in people's
homes. You have heard about our HouseCalls program in Medicare and we have begun using it in targeted commercial
and Medicaid patient situations as well. The more than 1 million house calls our physicians and nurse practitioners will
execute this year increases our medical spend upfront. They encourage people to get annual care visits with their
physicians, appropriate vaccinations, and so on. The benefits are substantial. We have more satisfied consumers with
better healthcare quality, and we protect them from potentially higher medical costs down the road. Consumer
satisfaction and retention are significantly strengthened by the house calls experience.
At the community level, we have hundreds of community health workers on the ground, helping address the root causes
of health care issues for Medicaid members with complex medical conditions. We meet with them in their homes and
help them access the health and social services they need to better manage their health. This includes addressing
housing, employment, access to healthy food and nutrition, as well as transportation and other public support services.
Again, UnitedHealthcare is improving the quality and consumer satisfaction, while helping to reduce exposure to
potentially higher costs from untreated or under-treated conditions.
Our people are also on site in hospitals, helping with discharge and follow-up care planning. They are in physicians'
offices helping address gaps in care and documenting Medicare quality compliance. And they are on the phone and on
the web treating every interaction as an opportunity to add value for the consumer by helping them understand the
actions they need to take to improve their health.
You can see the benefit programs and approaches like these in our results. Growth in local commercial markets, where
our efforts to be more local are having positive effects; distinguished and ongoing growth in service to large
Company Name: UnitedHealth
Company Ticker: UNH US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 18
self-funded employers who are among the most informed and discriminating in assessing service, quality, innovation,
and total value; consistent Medicaid awards from states, which focus on elements of quality, service, and total value in
their valuation process.
In just the past two weeks, we have been honored to be selected by the state of Michigan and the state of Texas for
program expansions, and we recently finalized our commitments to serve the state of Iowa as a culmination of their
award process. And our Medicare Stars quality is sharply higher for 2016 and 2017, thanks to our employees and the
strong performance of the care providers who have worked collaboratively with us to better serve seniors. We believe
UnitedHealthcare will continue to grow at a strong pace, profitably improving its market share as a direct result of the
quality, consumer satisfaction, and total value we deliver.
Before Steve sums up, let me touch on the outlook for UnitedHealth Group as a whole. Considering together both the
positives and pressures of the first nine months of this year, we continue to expect our full-year 2015 results will fall
within the range of $6.25 to $6.35 per share. And we would remind you that, that range absorbs $0.10 per share for
Catamaran and compares favorably with our original outlook of $6.00 to $6.25 per share.
We continue to expect a further lift in the rate of earnings per share growth in 2016. The range of Street estimates for
the next year is quite wide, and we expect to be within that range, but not surprisingly, we would begin in a more
conservative posture or range as we have in prior years. We will defer specific questions on 2016 financial performance
to December 1, when we host our annual Investor Conference in New York.
Let me turn it back to Steve.
Stephen J. Hemsley
Thank you, Dave. So, Larry and Dave have given you some sense for why we continue to be optimistic about our
potential to deliver value throughout the broad health care system and to grow. You heard some of our touch tones in
their comments; relationships, built around trust, collaboration and mutual respect for the challenges in delivering
health care, improving it and making it simpler for the people involved. Innovation; developing products and processes
that truly help people solve real problems and then embedding and driving these ideas to scale quickly to improve the
overall system. Quality; measured by how consumers, physicians and other customers define it and feel it. Responsive
and compassionate service, which goes in hand-in-hand with quality and defines people's healthcare experience.
Our aspiration is to serve others on their terms, not ours. Satisfaction and value, which together capture how well you
bring all these elements together to help people in differentiated ways. We believe executing well on these elements at
scale with nearly 200,000 dedicated people pulling in the same direction will make a difference for those we serve and
drive distinctive, sustaining growth across our enterprise.
Thank you for your interest this morning, and now, operator, can we now take some questions?
Q&A
Operator
[Operator Instructions] We ask you to limit to one question per person so we can get to as many participants as
possible. Thank you. And we'll take our first question from Peter Costa with Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
<Q - Peter Heinz Costa>: Thanks. Good morning, everyone. Can you clarify a couple of things you said about the cost
trend, you said cost trend would be at the lower end of the guidance range of 5% to 6%, and you said MLR would be
above the midpoint of the guidance range? I assume the difference there is the spend on Medicare Star scores. Can you
talk about how much you're spending on Medicare Star scores in the MLR component and what exactly the impact
there is to you guys?
Company Name: UnitedHealth
Company Ticker: UNH US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 18
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Well, I don't think we're going to get quite that granular, but I think we can respond to that
kind of in themes and maybe between Dave and Dan.
<A - David Scott Wichmann>: Sure. Peter, I think you have most of it right. The cost trend commentary around the
commercial cost trend is to be on the lower end of the 5.5% to 6.5% range. The MLR is expected to be above the
midpoint, and you're right, it's because of the impact of spending more on Medicare Stars, which was subsidence in the
quarter as well as for the full year. I think you saw the results of some of our earlier efforts in our 2017 funding year
and what we're really focused on right now is making sure that we continue to improve upon that so that the 2018
funding year is at that 80% four-Star higher level across the board, if not higher. We also have – as you know, we've
grown our government services mix quite a bit in our business, and that is across Medicaid, Medicare, as well as we
kind of group in the insurance exchange into that as well, and those things have a tendency based upon mix to bias that
MLR up just a bit as well.
<Q - Peter Heinz Costa>: How should we think about that going forward into 2016?
<A - David Scott Wichmann>: Going forward in 2016, we continue to expect strong growth across all components of
the UnitedHealthcare business, as well as Optum, including from the MLR, I think we'll see strikingly better
performance on the insurance exchange business, not only because of expansion, but also because of improvements in
the overall MLR and operating cost structure of that program, so both. I think you'll continue to see strong growth in
both Medicare and Medicaid, which will put some pressure on that as well, but I would expect us to continue to grow
nicely in those two categories as well.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Growth in those categories, so growth in government programs, exchanges so forth, even
middle-market tend to come at slightly lower margins, so you're seeing that blend effect in these results.
<A - David Scott Wichmann>: And we'll spend more time with you on that at the Investor Conference, Peter.
<Q - Peter Heinz Costa>: Great. And just did the risk corridors impact – the underpayment of the risk corridors
impact this quarter at all?
<A - David Scott Wichmann>: No, they do not.
<Q - Peter Heinz Costa>: Thank you.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Next question, please?
Operator
And we'll take the next question from Matthew Borsch with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
<Q - Matthew Richard Borsch>: Yes. Maybe if I could just continue the discussion on the ACA exchanges. Can you
help us understand the elements that make you confident you're going to get strikingly better, I think you said,
performance on the ACA exchanges next year? I mean – and maybe this is good, maybe this is bad, I don't know, but
you have these co-ops failing, the largest in the New York market, I assume that you may pick up a lot – or you may
want to pick up a lot of membership from that, and you have price increases. But it's unclear what the mix of
membership is going to be next year with regard to health status. So can you just talk to that?
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Sure. So we'll let Dan and Jeff kind of comment on that. Dan?
<A - Daniel J. Schumacher>: Sure. Matt, good morning.
<Q - Matthew Richard Borsch>: Good morning.
<A - Daniel J. Schumacher>: So with regard to the exchanges and some of Dave's earlier comments, so in the first
half of the year, this year, we got industry data that suggested that the underlying use of medical services in that
population was high, and higher than we thought. And the good news is, we used that information as the foundation for
Company Name: UnitedHealth
Company Ticker: UNH US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 18
our 2016 pricing. So we put in strong price increases, average increases across the country are in the double digits, and
we also took steps to eliminate some products and reposition other products. So as we look at our exchange business
for 2016, that really speaks to Dave's comments about why we expect to see very nice improvement year-over-year.
As it relates to our 2015 experience and our own block of business and what we're seeing, in the first half of this year,
we did not see much in the way of medical use, so we had much less use as members rolled on for the first four months
of the year and they started to get connected to coverage and care and so forth, and we've seen an increase in that. And
so while we're calling it out, we called it out in the context of mix in the second quarter. In the third quarter, we're
calling it out more specifically because on the year we expect the individual exchange business to put pressure on the
consolidated care ratio. However, as Dave mentioned, we fully expect to perform within the range of the guidance we
provided last December at the Investor Conference.
<Q - Matthew Richard Borsch>: Yeah, and thank you. That was great. I'll get off now. I know you have a lot of
people.
<A - Daniel J. Schumacher>: Thanks, Matt.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Thank you. Next question, please?
Operator
And we'll go next to Josh Raskin with Barclays. Please go ahead.
<Q - Joshua R. Raskin>: Great. Thanks. Just a follow up on the MA Star investments. Talking about an overall MLR
this year that'll be above the midpoint, every 10 basis points is, I don't know, $130 million, $140 million of investment
on the full year. So I don't know what that implies, but that seems like a pretty big investment. So the two questions are,
one, are these sort of temporary in nature? Are they just impacting 2015, or are we going to see this continue into 2016,
i.e., could this be a possible tailwind for next year? And then, how do you think about the ROI? What are you
measuring? Are you just measuring simply the bonus – the reimbursement improvements and how do we think about
sort of the cost versus the investment versus the upside from these investments?
<A - David Scott Wichmann>: Sure. So I guess somewhat globally I'd offer that the investments are significant, and
we have made that clear in the past and our goal to really get 80% or better of our overall Medicare at four Stars and
above. There's also benefits associated with that because when you're achieving that level, you have flexibility with
benefits and the reimbursements are better, so there is a – and we're probably front-ending more of the investments and
we are getting the benefits at this point in time given the fact that we were somewhat coming from behind, if you will,
in terms of overall Star performance. Dan or Steve, you want to comment further?
<A - Daniel J. Schumacher>: Yeah. Josh, to your question around do we expect levels to maintain, yes, we do. We
expect to make comparable investments forward in our Stars and quality performance. And as you saw in the 2017
payment data, we saw nice progress and in-year our performance for 2015 is improving, which will carry forward to
improvement in our 2018 performance. But beyond the Stars outcome, we also have outcomes in terms of quality
performance underneath that as you look at medical costs and so forth that contribute. So those are some of the things
that play into how we look at the balance between the cost and the return.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: And given the look-back nature of this, market hasn't even really seen our best
performance in terms of Stars, so we really haven't gotten the benefit part of that yet. Steve?
<Q - Joshua R. Raskin>: Okay.
<A - Steven Nelson>: So, Josh, this is Steve Nelson. Good morning. Hey. Just a little more color on the investments.
So when people talk about the medical costs, you can think about things like provider incentives, annual care visits,
impact of very specific programs like diabetic navigators in terms of diabetic programs for that population. In terms of
administrative investments around things like embedded practice support, we have 2,000 clinicians that are focused on
closing gaps of care locally and then we aren't orienting our organization like call centers to facilitate closure of gaps
Company Name: UnitedHealth
Company Ticker: UNH US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 18
and getting people to the right care. So these are all paying great dividends for our members. We have 1.7 million
members that are in improved plans, so it's a great progress, but as Steve and Dave have both noted, we're not done. We
made some progress, we're not satisfied and look to improve on that for 2018 payment year to at least 80% of our
members in four-Star plans or higher.
<Q - Joshua R. Raskin>: Okay. Just a follow up, does that translate into above-market level MA growth rates for you,
guys? You've been growing sort of, let's call it, in line with market this year. Should we think 2016 and maybe more so
in 2017 and 2018 that you start growing faster than the overall MA market?
<A - Steven Nelson>: I think that would be our hope. If you sit back and set a return on investment, I think it's – this is
a vital program, we think it has great growth potential in terms of the demographics, as well as the orientation of
Medicare itself to be more towards Medicare Advantage. So this gives us opportunities with respect to benefits, and I
think it should translate to greater growth, and that's why we're making those investments, yeah.
<Q - Joshua R. Raskin>: All right. Thanks.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Next question, please?
Operator
And we'll go next to Sarah James with Wedbush. Please go ahead.
<Q - Sarah James>: Thank you. SG&A was a bright point in the quarter, it came in better than consensus
expectations. So now that Catamaran is closed, how do you think about run rate SG&A?
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Excuse me, we didn't hear the beginning of this. Could you start again?
<Q - Sarah James>: Sure. SG&A was a bright point in the quarter, came in better than consensus expectations. And
now that Catamaran is closed, how should we think about run rate SG&A? I think guidance was set pre-Catamaran at
17% plus or minus 30 basis points.
<A - Daniel J. Schumacher>: Well, we are always managing our SG&A as tightly and appropriately as possible, but
we're also making investments that are often embedded in SG&A, investments in terms of some integration of
businesses, as well as things that Dave mentioned such as Link and elements such as that. But, do you want to start?
<A - David Scott Wichmann>: Sure. Sarah, you're right, the Catamaran was probably the most significant influence
on the care ratio in the quarter. We also have to increase productivity impacts on that as well. And then it's offset
somewhat by the business mix, as you can see from the growth from Optum, as well as in our fee-based programs. And
then there's a little bit of an insurer fee offset as well. We do expect – Catamaran overall had pulled down that ratio by
somewhere around 180 basis points or so in the quarter. So we would expect that kind of a trend to continue as it relates
to Catamaran, but we would continue to expect some offset of that related to continued high-growth in our services
business over time.
<Q - Sarah James>: Great. Thank you.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Next question, please?
Operator
And we'll go next the Sheryl Skolnick with Mizuho Securities U.S.
<Q - Sheryl R. Skolnick>: ...very much. And once again, a very nice job on navigating through the various and sundry
challenges. One of the things that intrigued me was a commentary about the opportunity being both domestic and
international. And if I read your press release correctly, it looks like UnitedHealthcare Global, which we don't focus on
all that much, had actually a nice year-over-year growth rate. So in the context of great change occurring not only U.S.
Company Name: UnitedHealth
Company Ticker: UNH US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 18
in terms of payment methods and industry structure, but also overseas and in Europe, for example, I'm wondering if
we're likely to see some renewed interest in that, given that your Amil experiment has now got some time under it, and
your thoughts on the potential for international to be a new growth area or expanded growth area for United?
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: That's a great question, and we clearly are focused on international and the opportunities
to really bring principally services to bear there. Larry, do you want to...
<A - Larry C. Renfro>: Sure. Let me start by saying, if you looked at the way that we're positioning ourselves in –
and I think I mentioned this earlier, the five what I'll call future growth areas, you would find international, and you
would also find that international pretty much wrap around most of the products that we offer in the States. We
obviously are working in Brazil to support Amil. And we have people on the ground and we're building the Optum
presence there, and that's going extremely well.
We're starting to really take a look, and I think I can talk about it somewhat, at the UK. We've been there for a while,
but at this point in time, we're trying to look at some of the things that we've done with Optum360 and how that is
working in the States and a lot of the challenges that are being experienced in the UK, we seem to be sitting in a pretty
good spot to at least assess and have conversations and try to determine if we fit. So it's early innings in terms of these
discussions and what we're trying to do, but we do see a future there. And we think that some of the experience we had
in HealthCare.gov will actually apply. And so we're kind of off and running at this point in time.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Yeah, I think it's fair to say that even the best health care systems are interested in using
information, developing better measures to improve quality and performance, and those really are a sweet spot for
Optum, so--. Next question, please?
Operator
We'll go next to Michael Baker with Raymond James.
<Q - Michael J. Baker>: Yes. Thanks a lot. Given that we're in an unprecedented time on the M&A front, I was
wondering if you could point to any tangible benefits that you've seen so far or what you would expect to see as the
process of review continues?
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: As we kind of intimated in our last teleconference with you, we really are not going to
comment on the transactions of others. I would say they're going through, I'm presuming, a regulatory review process,
and so we haven't really seen any real activity in the marketplace that we could offer any commentary on.
<Q - Michael J. Baker>: All right. Thanks.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Thank you. Next question?
Operator
And we'll go next to David Windley with Jefferies. Please go ahead.
<Q - David Howard Windley>: Hi, good morning. Thanks for taking the question. I wondered if you would be willing
to comment on the client reaction that you've observed or experienced since the Catamaran closure or in and around the
Catamaran closure. What has been your retention rate or just kind of sense of retention there? And then secondly, also
with Catamaran, are you commenting or willing to comment on the reset to your long-term margin goals with the
change in mix that Catamaran brings into Optum? Thanks.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Sure. I think it's a pretty positive story. Do you want to start, Larry?
<A - Larry C. Renfro>: Sure. I'm sorry, I'm going to ask Mark Thierer to join in...
<Q - David Howard Windley>: Can't hear, Larry.
Company Name: UnitedHealth
Company Ticker: UNH US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 18
<A - Larry C. Renfro>: Can you hear me now? Sorry about that.
<Q - David Howard Windley>: Yeah, that's better. Thank you.
<A - Larry C. Renfro>: Sorry, David. We didn't have the button pushed. So what I thought I'll do is, I'll start, and then
I'm going to hand it off to Mark Thierer because he's dealing with this on a day-to-day. What I would say is that we
believe that our message is resonating with our clients. Now, we do have very sophisticated, knowledgeable and
successful clients, and that's actually a positive. And as we have really gone out and discussed our value proposition,
really talking about enhanced services, talking about operational efficiency, purchasing scale as well as
synchronization, I think, across the board, we're really feeling pretty good and think we have and started off with a
solid, solid start. So, Mark, maybe some comments?
<A - Mark A. Thierer>: Yeah, thanks, Larry. David, good morning. While we spent the last 90 days on an airplane
and Larry and I visited really all our largest clients, as you'd expect, and that includes health plans, employers. We
visited the consultant marketplace. And I have to tell you, the reaction has been universally positive. I mean, our clients
like the scale of this combination. They like the fact that we've had a 10-year relationship and that, that will basically
represent no conversion risk in terms of platform conversions.
They especially like the fact that we've got a very expanded service offering with a full suite of Optum services. And
many of them have been looking at and in fact buying those services along the way anyway. And so they like the fact
that we've got a good team and the same team is in place to continue to take care of them and obviously they're liking
our value proposition. So we're feeling pretty good about the client reactions, and I'd say overall my early read is things
are looking good. I'll just go on to say that the integration work is off and running, and the first 90 days have been very
crisp. We're off to a good start in bolting these businesses together.
<Q - David Howard Windley>: Very good. Thank you. And does this change your margin – Larry, your margin goal
long-term?
<A - Larry C. Renfro>: So, maybe I could offer a perspective on that. We're a portfolio of margin across the expanse
of our total business. And so different products and services will actually drive different margins and appropriately so.
We have some businesses that are strong double-digits and we have businesses that are low-single digits. And we're
looking to drive and expand margin, but do it in appropriate ways, appropriate ways meaning we're driving value of
consistency, we're driving productivity that doesn't really compromise service and so forth.
And so as these elements come into our total portfolio across UnitedHealth Group, they're certainly going to change the
mix of that margin. But in total, we're driving towards appropriately expanding margins. And so as these elements
come in, they're just going to change the mix, they're not really going to influence, I think, the performance of the
business.
<Q - David Howard Windley>: Okay. Thank you.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Next, please?
Operator
And we'll go to Andy Schenker with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
<Q - Andy Schenker>: Thanks. And so I appreciate you don't want – and you want to defer specifics on 2016 financial
performance to Analyst Day, but you've already mentioned several, sound like to me, tailwinds including Medicare and
exchanges for next year. So maybe if you could just discuss and summarize these broad headwinds and any – and
tailwinds for 2016 that'd be helpful? Thank you.
<A - Larry C. Renfro>: Sure. So kind of we look at some things that we sit back and – when you really do the pluses
and minuses of it, some of the things that are headwinds now turn to be tailwinds and new versions of them appear as
Company Name: UnitedHealth
Company Ticker: UNH US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 18
headwinds. So for example, I think our year one markets or our year one markets for exchanges will actually be a
positive for us next year. But we are moving into 11 new markets and so we will have to see how those markets will
play out.
I think our advances in Stars is a positive, but we – as Steve indicated, we all have clear aspirations and ambitions to
improve our Stars performance so that we will continue to be working on that level as well. I think OptumRx will have
integration benefits, but they will also have integration costs. So I think those kinds of things start to play out. I think
our Brazil performance is strengthening, but that market's stability is something we're watching closely.
I think there will be some – we are getting nice growth and lift in Medicaid and we have some new successes there. But
we are going to have to implement them and just given the total performance, we're seeing rate pressures across
Medicaid. So we try to take somewhat measured look as we kind of set our outlook for next year that we have a
portfolio of these pluses and minuses. But in total, we very much like where our business is and the growing
capabilities. The deployment across the expanse of the markets tend to even out these pluses and minuses, so we're
pretty optimistic about next year. And as Dave indicated, we're looking to accelerate our earnings growth rate.
<Q - Andy Schenker>: Thank you.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Next?
Operator
And we'll go to Chris Rigg with Susquehanna Financial Group.
<Q - Chris Rigg>: Good morning. Just wondering, can you give us a sense for how Catamaran impacted the quarter,
whether it was dilutive, accretive, neutral? And then just some specifics around the integration costs and what the
intangible amortization related to deal was in the quarter? Thanks.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Dave?
<A - David Scott Wichmann>: Yeah, so Catamaran contributed nicely to the quarter. It achieved its – what
expectations we had for it. And similarly, the costs associated with initial integration activities were consistent with
what our expectations were as well. I'm not going to get into specifics about how it contributed. The one thing we did
do is we suspended our share repurchase, so that had a negative effect. And for the full year, as we indicated earlier, we
expect that would cost us about $0.10 a share all-in, but we were able to manage to overcome that and retain and
continue to advance our guidance as well.
In terms of the increased levels of amortization, it is about somewhere around $0.20 a year. Think about it in that
context. So – and we're on a base of about – a run rate of UnitedHealth Group's somewhere around $0.34 a year, so
combined, maybe thinking out to 2016 on a run-rate basis, around $0.54 of amortization per year.
<Q - Chris Rigg>: Okay. Thanks a lot.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Next question, please?
Operator
Next we'll go to A.J. Rice with UBS. Please go ahead.
<Q - A.J. Rice>: Yes. Thanks for the color, everybody. Maybe following up a little bit on that last question. Two
things. On the buyback front, obviously, you've laid out a plan with Catamaran. Is there any update on that plan,
particularly as it relates to next year, and does the volatility in the market sway that in any way make you think it's
better opportunities and maybe being quicker to come back and buy stock more aggressively?
Company Name: UnitedHealth
Company Ticker: UNH US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 18
And then just with the comment on the amortization, there'll be a bigger disparity once these pending deals complete on
you reporting GAAP EPS and everyone else reporting cash EPS. Any thoughts about that and maybe changing that?
<A - David Scott Wichmann>: Sure. So – maybe you want to take the first one, I'll take the second.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Sure. On the buyback front, what we've indicated is that we would reduce the level of
buybacks for about 18 months or so. And we expect to continue to maintain that reduced level through the end of next
year. Think about it. And our target is to get somewhere around a 40% liquidity ratio. That's not hard and fast. Of
course, we're going to continue to pursue M&A opportunities and, of course, if we needed to step up our share
repurchase activities because of some kind of market event or otherwise, I think we have the flexibility to do so. So
there's nothing kind of hard and fast about the way in which we operate that. We manage our capital structure
effectively over time.
<A - David Scott Wichmann>: But we're generally on a course towards 40% total debt to...
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Yeah.
<A - David Scott Wichmann>: [indiscernible] (46:08).
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: [indiscernible] (46:09). And then in terms of the kind of supplemental per share earnings, I
think we'll kind of address that at the Investor Conference coming up, and we'll likely begin to provide the
supplemental information with respect to how we would perform on both basis.
<Q - A.J. Rice>: Okay. Great. Thanks.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Thank you. Next question, please?
Operator
And we'll go next to Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America. Please go ahead.
<Q - Kevin Mark Fischbeck>: Okay, great. Thanks. So I don't know whether I'm just spoiled or what, but you guys
mentioned how you've beaten numbers, raised guidance a few times already this year. So I was a little bit surprised that
there wasn't more upside in the quarter or around the guidance. And I understand the dynamics around how you
exchange MLR and Stars investments, but these are things that you largely would have anticipated probably at the
beginning of the year and at very least when you reported Q2 results and provided guidance back then. So just trying to
figure out if there's something that you would point to that didn't quite work out the way that you were thinking heading
into Q3 or something like that you're worried about into Q4, because I personally keep coming back to trend because
you start out with – I know you guys provide guidance. You provide guidance assuming [indiscernible] (47:25) rise
back to normal, so you start off providing guidance, then you're at the lower end of the range, now you're reiterating at
the lower end of the range. So does that imply that trend is, in fact, rising as you've gone through the year? Because that
combined with the lack [indiscernible] (47:38) development makes me wonder if there's something underneath there.
So I guess answer that specifically and if I'm barking up the wrong tree, if there's anything else you might highlight as a
headwind?
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Well, I might just – again, might respond thematically. First of all, I think if you take a
look at our year-to-date performance, it actually is a pretty solid performance, good top line growth and strong
translation of that to bottom line performance. I think we maintain a healthy respect for medical cost trends, and I think,
as I indicated before, medical costs while within our expectations, outpatient continues to be strong and robust and
growing. Specialty pharma continues to be strong. We haven't really talked much about that this morning, but none of
those things have gone away. So we remain respectful of medical costs and also the fact that they have been moderate
for quite some time, and I don't know if you can assume, we do not assume for pricing that they will stay that way.
I think as Dan indicated, as we got into the exchanges, we were thoughtful about making sure that as we price for next
year that we used kind of the broader industry experience as opposed to our own, because we really had a pretty
Company Name: UnitedHealth
Company Ticker: UNH US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 18
favorable experience in the first half of the year in terms of the exchanges. And they have matured kind of more in line
with the industry. Is that right, Dan?
<A - Daniel J. Schumacher>: Yes, I think that's fair.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: I thought you might point to that and continuing to be watchful of that. We continue to
make investments in – so Medicare Stars is a look-back process, so really the results that you're seeing are really the
results of prior periods. And we have intensified our efforts to make sure that we are really going to be a market leader
with respect to Stars. That's what we had indicated before, so we continue to make investments there, things like that,
and we're going to continue that, things like that. We mentioned Medicaid and Medicaid expansions, continued rate
pressures there. So I think we have to be respectful of all those elements and the strong performance we're achieving.
And I think that's why we are kind of measured with respect to keeping our outlook the same and being serious about a
range when we do, but also being very optimistic about where we see our business and the fact that we expect to grow
even more strongly than we did this year. So I just think it's being measured and trying to be responsible about all the
elements that play into our business.
<Q - Kevin Mark Fischbeck>: Okay. So that makes sense, so you're being conservative, you're still optimistic. I guess
one, I don't know, clarification, because I think last quarter you talked about how you thought that United's earnings
might accelerate on a core basis. Is that still the message that you're giving now? You mentioned a lot of puts and takes
earlier on. I just wasn't sure if they all sum up to the core businesses as accelerating or whether that's changed at all.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Yeah, we did, and we basically very much said that, and said that in terms as we are
expecting our earnings per share and so forth to grow at a faster rate next year than this year.
<Q - Kevin Mark Fischbeck>: Okay, great. Thanks.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Next question, please?
Operator
And we'll go next to Sean Wieland with Piper Jaffray.
<Q - Sean W. Wieland>: Thank you very much. So my question is on ICD-10. Was it a headwind or a tailwind in the
quarter for Optum? And over the past couple of weeks, have you seen any changes in denial rates? And then on a
go-forward basis, what does ICD-10 do to your business in Optum?
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: So, Bill, do you want to comment on that, Bill Miller?
<A - Bill Miller>: Yes, Sean, I'll talk in on behalf of Optum, particularly where a lot of those services sit in terms of
helping health systems, payers go through the changes with respect to ICD-10, particularly on – and understand, we're
in this for a few weeks here, but already we're seeing a certain uptake in a lot of our services and a lot of our products
and a lot of our content as the market is preparing and now acting in response to the changes. And so there is some
seasonality in the back-half of our business, and it's being enhanced. I think we can see that in the numbers in terms of
the uptake of our content in the back-half of the year. So overall, from a services perspective, delivering value to the
client, ICD-10 has been a lift for Optum across the board.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Dirk, do you want to comment on the UnitedHealthcare side?
<A - Dirk McMahon>: Yeah, sure. From an operational standpoint, overall, the implementation is going pretty
smoothly. But what I caution is that we're only 15 days into that. Having said that, we spent years getting our systems
ready, working them with the provider community to ensure success. The overwhelming majority of providers in the
marketplace are submitting claims consistent with the ICD-10 requirements. Our claim submission rates so far are
consistent with expectations. And for those limited number of providers who are having difficulty, we're able to
identify them and get after them quickly so that they submit consistent with the requirements. So, so far so good.
Company Name: UnitedHealth
Company Ticker: UNH US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 18
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Thank you.
<Q - Sean W. Wieland>: Thank you.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Next question, please?
Operator
And next would be Gary Taylor with JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
<Q - Gary P. Taylor>: Hi, good morning. Thank you. Actually just two quick ones. First, would you guys quantify
where your health exchange enrollment is today?
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Sure. Dan?
<A - Daniel J. Schumacher>: 550,000 lives.
<Q - Gary P. Taylor>: Okay. And the 11 new markets for next year, I guess, we don't know what markets those are or
the size. What – can you give us a sense of magnitude of – you get the same sort of share, what type of growth that
might have on the 550,000 lives?
<A - Daniel J. Schumacher>: We are not really giving guidance out for next year until our Investor Conference. So I
really wouldn't want to kind of shoot from the hip on this. We do expect we'll grow, and we've taken some of the
learnings from this year as we have kind of entered those markets. But I think we're going to save guidance with
respect to specifics on next year for our Investor Conference.
<Q - Gary P. Taylor>: Okay. Great. One more quick one, if I could. When we look at your statutory filings through
the first half and understanding all the vagaries and nuances, we do see a very compelling trend in the commercial
business that I think ties with your comments around the commercial cost trend, expecting to be lower end of that trend.
But it did look like Medicare and Medicaid MLRs deteriorated somewhat in the 2Q, so I don't know if you'd be willing
to offer any specific commentary on a product basis? Thanks.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Dan, I don't know if you can comment on that?
<A - Daniel J. Schumacher>: I would tell you that there are meaningful differences between our GAAP financials and
our statutory financials and how those get reported and how they flow through over time. So from my perspective, I
wouldn't read through anything on the statutory statement specifically.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Thank you. Next question?
Operator
And next will be Ralph Giacobbe with Citi (sic) [Credit Suisse]. Please go ahead.
<Q - Ralph Giacobbe>: Thanks. Good morning. I do want to go back to the Star spending. I guess when did that
spending start? Was it disproportionate, I guess, to the third quarter? And your commentary about it sort of sustaining I
guess into next year, is it sort of going to level off, or could it be lower where the initial spend is higher in this quarter
having a more sort of magnified impact? And then, I guess, why not quantify the spend in that area to sort of help on
kind of understanding more of, quote-unquote, sort of the core? And then similar to sort of your last answer to the
question, maybe even directionally, can you help us think about MLR trends by end market? Thanks.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Yeah. So, Dan, you want to comment on that?
<A - Daniel J. Schumacher>: Sure, Ralph. On the Star spend, I would tell you that we have been making investments.
We really started in earnest in the 2014 timeframe, in the middle of that year. And then, we have increased that in 2015.
And I'd tell you, I mean, the relationship between the second and the third quarter as an example, so we put programs in
Company Name: UnitedHealth
Company Ticker: UNH US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 18
place, and what we had mentioned is that we've seen an acceleration in the take-up. So we had the programs in place,
we had an expected outcome for it, and frankly we're having more people that are accepting house calls, that are getting
annual care visits, as Steve Nelson mentioned.
And part of that's due to our service model. So we've been taking that interaction point and really trying to leverage it
and help facilitate connecting people to care, and that's showing up. And also we have member and provider incentives.
And as those burn into the market, we're seeing take-up rates on those increase. So we have spending in 2014, we
increased it in 2015, and we have seen an acceleration in the take-up rate as we moved from the first half into the
second half of the year.
In terms of the sizing, maybe one way to help orient your thinking around it, as you looked at our consolidated medical
care ratio on a year-over-year basis, there is a couple of things that contributed to that. You can obviously see the
change in development as one element, Stars and quality investments is another element, and mix as a third is kind of
the three principal drivers. And in terms of the share and contribution to it, it's within a reasonable range on each of
those. So that gives you some sense for the kind of sizing on it. And we expect the investments to carry into 2016 and
we're seeing nice progress on our performance in 2015, which will lend itself to better Star outcomes for 2018 payment
year.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: And exchange [ph] steps part of planned (57:53) commentary, right?
<A - Daniel J. Schumacher>: Yes.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Thank you.
<Q - Ralph Giacobbe>: Okay.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Next question?
Operator
And we'll go next to Ana Gupte with Leerink. Please go ahead.
<Q - Ana A. Gupte>: Yeah, thanks for taking the question. Good morning. I was wondering what the directional
trends were for the commercial loss ratio this quarter. I know you say utilization is weak, which is great, but when you
combine it with the overall pricing environment and then the balancing out with mix shifting, small-group exchanges,
and the like?
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Dan? Jeff?
<A - Daniel J. Schumacher>: Sure. As you look at the care ratios, Ana, in the quarter, we saw an increase in our care
ratios in our principal health benefits businesses, so Medicare, Medicaid and commercial. And then offsetting that, as
we talked about kind of the full-year theme at the Investor Conference, we're seeing improvement in international
offsetting that some. So directionally up.
<Q - Ana A. Gupte>: And then going into 2016, as you say, some of the headwinds get to become tailwinds. What
does this look like from a pricing perspective, specifically overall? And then in the New York markets, the small group
definition has now been changed to only 50 and below. How does that impact it? And also finally, with risk corridors
not being fully reimbursed, might you see a better pricing environment with plans that could have lost money like the
[ph] Blue's (59:18) not-for-profit?
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Well, it'll take us a couple of minutes to sort out that four dimensional question. But, Jeff,
do you want to...
<A - Jeff Alter>: Hi, Ana. It's Jeff Alter. Good morning. I'll try to answer it in a sort of a general term. We said last
quarter and I think we see it continuing, the market is firming a little bit on pricing. For our pricing in 2016, as Steve
said, we are respectful of the slow trend environment perhaps changing. We – I think we took very prudent actions in
Company Name: UnitedHealth
Company Ticker: UNH US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 16 of 18
the pricing that we have for our individual exchanges for 2016, as Dan mentioned.
We have not changed our forward-pricing philosophy. We are very disciplined about that. But also respectful of trend
in outpatient, specialty drugs, new drugs coming to market. So our pricing, I think, is strong for 2016. And, yeah, on
New York market – kind of your question around 2 to 50 to 2 to 99, New York will be a 2 to 99 market, as will a
couple of other states. We had assumed in our thoughts for the – our enrollment growth for the rest of this year and for
next year that there would be some transitional relief so that the change last week really isn't much of a surprise to us,
because we're already preparing for large parts of that market to go through some transitional relief. So our pricing in
2016 is in alignment with the change in the law last week.
<Q - Ana A. Gupte>: Great. Thanks so much.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Thank you. Next question, please? We'll take maybe two more.
Operator
And we'll take the next question from Christine Arnold with Cowen. Please go ahead.
<Q - Christine M. Arnold>: Hey, there. I'd like to put the focus a little bit to Optum. You said that you were seeing
some interests in innovative services by the Federal Government and that this seems like a pretty big opportunity, as
well as some international markets. It's always struck me that the fee-for-service Medicare program doesn't have a lot in
the way of care coordination and some of the other things that Optum provides. Might there be an interest in that in
terms of Optum capabilities for the fee-for-service Medicare population? And if not – I'm thinking about that
incorrectly, how should I be thinking about that?
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Larry, do you want to comment?
<A - Larry C. Renfro>: Sure. I think that – and Christine, I think you're spot on in terms of what we're trying to do
with the Federal Government. And as you know, we've had some involvement with CMS in previous programs and so
forth with where Optum's been involved on HealthCare.gov. And as we are putting our programs together, we're
constantly working with them and talking about the different services, the different data analytics, and really pretty
much everything that Optum has to offer.
So your suggestion is a good one, one we know about and one that we're actually working on. These are large RFPs, as
you can imagine. We're pretty much aware of how they work and when they're going to be coming down the road. So I
think we're fully engaged and understand what we need to do. And we're better positioned today than we might have
been in the past because of the situation that we had with HealthCare.gov. We've kind of stepped out of that now, and
that was one of the reasons that we did it, so we would play in more of the RFPs.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: But Medicare, the VA, Department of Defense, Federal Employee Benefit plans, state
programs, and then Larry commented on kind of the international versions of all the above, I think all those are going
to be areas they're going to try to improve performance and that Optum is perfectly positioned for that.
<Q - Christine M. Arnold>: And with respect to timing, should we be thinking about that as something we'd see in the
next year, is this something that takes five years? I just don't have a good sense for workings of the government.
<A - Larry C. Renfro>: I think that some of the areas that Steve just talked about, there's different timing. There's
some that's real within the next, I would say, six months, but some of them could go out two years. So it's just a – it's a
variety of situations or when the RFPs are due. But as I would kind of comment on it, I think I kind of said this, we
have a lot of people – we now have an organization that's dedicated to the government business, just as Steve said,
whether it be state or federal, and it could also include the VA and what we're doing with the DoD. So it's not just like a
set time that I could give you. But I would say that if we looked at our qualified pipeline in terms of how we're looking
at the business, that is somewhere, Christine, around $20 billion, and a substantial piece of that would fall into
government business.
Company Name: UnitedHealth
Company Ticker: UNH US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 17 of 18
<Q - Christine M. Arnold>: Great. Thanks.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: One last question, please?
Operator
And our final question comes from Tom Carroll with Stifel. Please go ahead.
<Q - Tom A. Carroll>: Hey, guys. Good morning. Yeah, so do you believe that the market, and particularly large,
self-insured employers perhaps will give United a stronger look than usual, if there is such a thing, in 2016, as your
large competitors are involved in some pretty sizable M&A?
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: Well, I would hope they would give us a look because of the values that we deliver and the
quality and consistency of our services and the breadth of the things that we bring, and I would say also the innovative
dynamic. We are well known for being kind of in the forefront of innovation, and we have really compelling cost
structures and probably deeper into and more diverse in care management, to the commentary this morning. So I would
hope that they would be looking at us for those elements. And then if they're concerned about other dynamics in the
marketplace, I can't comment on that, but I would hope it is for the former. So, I'll kind of leave it at that. I do think the
marketplace will be strong and robust in the next couple of years. Jeff, do you agree?
<A - Jeff Alter>: Yeah, Steve, just a reminder, we already serve a overwhelming majority of that marketplace, so I
think the value that Steve described is seen by those clients today. And we hope that that reputation continues to help us
grow into the marketplace that we don't currently have.
<A - Stephen J. Hemsley>: I think we're looking at a strong national outlook for next year.
<A - Jeff Alter>: Yeah, our – as we mentioned last call, our 2016 national account season has progressed very nicely
towards the end right now, and we see a better 2016 season than 2015, which was better than 2014. So the momentum
and trajectory is something that we're very pleased with.
<Q - Tom A. Carroll>: Great. Thank you.
Stephen J. Hemsley
So, thank you. We are pleased to have delivered good performance year-to-date. We'll continue to improve the quality
of our products and services, to our last commentary, and we remain optimistic about 2016 and look forward to sharing
more information with you about the future of UnitedHealth Group, Optum and UnitedHealthcare at our Investor
Conference on December 1. So thank you for your attention today.
Operator
And this does conclude today's program. Thanks for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
Company Name: UnitedHealth
Company Ticker: UNH US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 18 of 18
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.