Company Name: Goldman Sachs
Company Ticker: GS US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 19
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Dane E. Holmes
• Harvey M. Schwartz
Other Participants
• Glenn Paul Schorr
• Michael R. Carrier
• Christian Bolu
• Matthew Derek O'Connor
• Elizabeth Lynn Graseck
• Mike L. Mayo
• Guy Moszkowski
• Fiona M. Swaffield
• James F. Mitchell
• Christopher M. Kotowski
• Brennan McHugh Hawken
• Steven J. Chubak
• Eric Wasserstrom
• Marty Lacey Mosby
• Brian M. Kleinhanzl
• Kian Abouhossein
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning. My name is Dennis and I will be your conference facilitator today. I would like to welcome everyone to
the Goldman Sachs Group Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. This call is being recorded today, October 15,
2015. Thank you.
Mr. Holmes, you may begin your conference.
Dane E. Holmes
Good morning. This is Dane Holmes, Head of Investor Relations at Goldman Sachs. Welcome to our third quarter
earnings conference call. Today's call may include forward-looking statements. These statements represent the firm's
belief regarding future events that by their nature are uncertain and outside of the firm's control. The firm's actual
results and financial condition may differ possibly materially from what is indicated in those forward-looking
statements.
For a discussion of some of the risks and factors that could affect the firm's future results, please see the description of
risk factors in our current Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 2014. I would also direct you to
read the forward-looking disclaimers in our quarterly earnings release, particularly as it relates to our investment
Company Name: Goldman Sachs
Company Ticker: GS US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 19
banking transaction backlog, capital ratios, risk-weighted assets, global core liquid assets and supplementary leverage
ratio, and you should also read the information on the calculation of non-GAAP financial measures that's posted on the
Investor Relations portion of our website at www.gs.com. This audio cast is copyrighted material of the Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. and may not be duplicated, reproduced or rebroadcast without our consent.
Our Chief Financial Officer, Harvey Schwartz, will now review the firm's results. Harvey?
Harvey M. Schwartz
Thanks, Dane, and thanks to everyone for dialing in. I'll walk you through the third quarter and year-to-date results, and
I'm happy to answer any questions. Net revenues were $6.9 billion, net earnings $1.4 billion, earnings per diluted share
$2.90, and our annualized return on common equity was 7%.
For the year-to-date, net revenues were $26.5 billion, net earnings $5.3 billion, earnings per diluted share $10.84, and
our annualized return on common equity was 8.8%. Book value per share is up 5% relative to year-end 2014 despite
recording net provisions for litigation and regulatory matters of $2.1 billion for year-to-date. These provisions largely
from legacy issues reduced our annualized return on common equity for the first nine months of the year by
approximately 3 percentage points.
Moving to the third quarter, parts of our franchise performed quite well while others operated against a more
challenging backdrop. Our M&A franchise continued to deliver robust results and our outlook remains positive.
We continue to see net inflows in our Investment Management business. Of course, there are the usual seasonal drivers
due to the summer slowdown, but in addition the third quarter also had more than its fair share of significant
macroeconomic ailments. Both the Chinese economy and the country's monetary policy came into focus. Our clients
evaluated the potential implications of a slowing Chinese economy, a decision by the People's Bank of China to
devalue its currency, and the resulting volatility in global markets.
As it relates to the U.S. economy, our clients remain focused on the Federal Reserve interest rate policy. Over the
course of the third quarter, clients' expectations for an interest rate hike began to shift. Mixed economic indicators
drove uncertainty about the pace of U.S. economic growth. Ultimately, there was doubt about the timing and magnitude
of a future rate increase.
Another significant macroeconomic theme in the third quarter, commodities. Prices fell across a number of different
products. WTI was down 24%. Copper and natural gas were both down approximately 10%. The price slump led the
market to focus on the credit risk of commodity producers, trading houses and those economies with significant
commodity exports. These concerns drove an increase in credit spreads particularly across the energy sector.
The sum impact of these various events led to lower levels of client activity and a significant re-pricing of the equity
and credit markets. The S&P was down nearly 7%, the MSCI World was down almost 10%, and the Shanghai
Composite was down close to 30%. In the credit markets, European high-yield spreads were 107 basis points wider and
U.S. high-yield spreads were 153 basis points wider. Not surprisingly, we produced lower quarterly revenues across
many of our businesses given both declining asset prices and reduced levels of client activity.
Now, I'll discuss each of our businesses. Investment Banking produced third quarter revenues of $1.6 billion, 23%
lower than a strong second quarter as underwriting slowed. Although issuance declined during the quarter, our
Investment Banking backlog remained strong and was up compared to both the second quarter and the end of 2014.
Breaking down the components of Investment Banking in the quarter, advisory revenues were $809 million, roughly
consistent with the second quarter. Year-to-date, Goldman Sachs ranked first in worldwide announced and completed
M&A. During this period, we served as an advisor on nearly $900 billion of completed transactions. This is roughly
$350 billion more than our next closest competitor. We advised on a number of significant transactions that closed
during the third quarter including DIRECTV's $67.1 billion sale to AT&T, eBay's $46.8 billion spinoff of PayPal, and
Baxter's $20.3 billion spinoff of Baxalta.
Company Name: Goldman Sachs
Company Ticker: GS US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 19
We also advised on a number of important transactions that were announced during the third quarter. These include
Energy Transfer Equity's $37.7 billion acquisition of The Williams Companies, Humana's $37 billion sale to Aetna,
and Procter & Gamble's $12.5 billion merger of its beauty business into Coty.
Moving to underwriting, revenues were $747 million in the third quarter, down 38% sequentially primarily due to a
significant decline in equity issuance. Although global activity was weaker, our franchise remained strong with a
number one ranking in global equity and equity-related and common stock offerings for the year-to-date. Equity
Underwriting revenues were $190 million. This was down substantially compared to the second quarter due to a
decrease of industry-wide IPOs and secondary offerings, as higher volatility and a decline in prices reduced activity.
Debt underwriting revenues of $557 million were down 8% quarter-over-quarter. A decrease of industry-wide issuance
volumes was partially offset by acquisition-related financings. During the third quarter, we actively supported our
clients' financing needs, leading HP Enterprise's $14.6 billion debt offering related to its spinoff from HP, Biogen's $6
billion debt offering, and Sampoerna's $1.4 billion rights offering.
Turning to Institutional Client Services, which comprises both our FICC and Equities businesses, net revenues were
$3.2 billion in the third quarter, down 11% compared to the second quarter. Within a number of our businesses, the
macro concerns I've already talked about impacted both client conviction and activity. FICC Client Execution net
revenues were $1.5 billion in the third quarter and included $147 million of DVA gains.
Net revenues were down 9% from the second quarter and market making conditions continue to be challenging.
Currencies improved sequentially as the devaluation in the Chinese yuan sparked significant client activity within our
emerging markets franchise. Commodities increased relative to a more challenging second quarter as declining
commodity prices and higher volatility benefited results. Interest rates were significantly lower as uncertainty related to
the direction of U.S. interest rates impacted activity. Credit decreased as client activity remained generally low amid
continued spread widening. Mortgages were significantly lower as conditions remained challenged with limited client
activity.
In Equities, which includes equities client execution, commissions and fees, and securities services, net revenues for the
third quarter were $1.8 billion, down 12% quarter-over-quarter and included $35 million in DVA gains. Equities client
execution net revenues decreased 29% sequentially to $555 million.
Broadly speaking, client activity declined versus the second quarter as higher volatility and global equity market
weakness impacted investor conviction and risk appetite. However, as is often the case in more volatile markets, we did
see activity pick up in our lower touch electronic channels. As a result, commissions and fees were up 7%
quarter-over-quarter to $818 million. Securities services generated net revenues of $379 million, down 14% compared
to the seasonally stronger second quarter.
Turning to risk, despite an increase in volatility, average daily borrowing in the third quarter was down $3 million
sequentially to $74 million.
Moving on to our Investing & Lending activities, collectively these businesses produced net revenues of $670 million
in the third quarter. Equity securities generated net revenues of $370 million. The declining global equity markets
negatively impacted net revenues in public equities during the quarter. Now revenues from debt securities and loans
were $300 million with the majority coming from net interest income.
In Investment Management, we reported third quarter net revenues of $1.4 billion, down 14% from the second quarter
as incentive fees declined. Management and other fees were down 3% sequentially to $1.2 billion. Assets under
supervision reached a record $1.19 trillion as long-term net inflows more than offset market depreciation. With respect
to long-term flows, organic net inflows were strong at $23 billion. We also closed the Pacific Global Advisor's
acquisition during the quarter, which added $18 billion of assets. This represents our seventh acquisition since the
beginning of 2012. Over that timeframe, total long-term net inflows were $195 billion. $71 billion of these net flows
came from acquisitions.
Company Name: Goldman Sachs
Company Ticker: GS US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 19
Moving to performance, across the global platform, 72% of our client mutual fund assets were in funds, ranked in the
top two quartiles on a three-year basis and 70% in funds ranked in the top two quartiles on a five-year basis.
Now let me turn to expenses. Compensation and benefits expense, which include salaries, bonuses, amortization of
prior-year equity awards and other items such as benefits, was accrued at a compensation to net revenues ratio of 40%
for the year-to-date. This is 200 basis points lower than the firm's accrual in the first half of this year and consistent
with the year-to-date compensation ratio at the end of the third quarter of 2014. Third quarter non-compensation
expenses were 40% lower than the second quarter. Substantially, all of the decrease was driven by the larger litigation
charge taken in the second quarter. In the third quarter, net provisions for litigation and regulatory expenses were $416
million.
Now I'd like to take you through a few key statistics for the third quarter. Total staff increased by 2,000 to
approximately 36,900, which was up 6% quarter-over-quarter. Roughly half of the new staff was from the Federation,
largely technology and operations. The other half was primarily spread across Investment Banking and Investment
Management. The increase was dominated by campus hires and reflects both the activity levels in certain businesses
and our continued investment in regulatory compliance.
Our effective tax rate for the year-to-date was 31%. Our global core liquid assets averaged $193 billion during the
quarter. Our Common Equity Tier 1 ratio was 12.4%, using the Standardized approach. It was 12.7% under the Basel
III Advanced approach. Our supplementary leverage ratio finished at 5.8%. And finally, we repurchased 5.4 million
shares of common stock for $1.1 billion in the third quarter. As we have discussed, related to our share repurchase
capacity, any potential share repurchases over the next three quarters will be more back-end weighted compared to the
last two quarters.
Before we turn to Q&A, I'll share some thoughts around the market and industry broadly. The third quarter served as a
reminder of the fragility and sensitivity of markets, investor sentiment, and the path to strong global economic growth.
As you know, over the last several years, the financial services industry has faced a series of headwinds. These
pressures have forced many within the industry to rethink their footprint or their level of commitment to a variety of
businesses, particularly within the more capital intensive businesses of fixed income, currencies and commodities.
At Goldman Sachs, our strategy remains intact, to be the leading advisor, underwriter, liquidity provider, financier and
investment manager. To that end, we are always looking for ways to deliver more differentiated value to our clients.
We're also keenly aware of the challenges facing the industry. While some of our businesses are experiencing
year-to-date growth, for example, Investment Banking and Investment Management, other parts of the business are in a
more difficult part of the cycle. However, we are hardly complacent.
For example, within FICC, we have proactively responded to industry-wide challenges, including asset sales, expense
initiatives, and balance sheet reductions. The goal of these various efforts is to maintain margins, improve returns,
prudently manage risk, and protect the global client franchise. We will always look for additional opportunities to
improve our FICC operations. However, we will also never lose sight of the tremendous value that we can bring to our
FICC clients over the long term.
In closing, we believe that our long-term prospects are quite favorable. Our global client franchise, it's as strong as
ever. Our league table rankings and track record of superior returns are a byproduct of that strength. In addition, we
have the people, the risk culture, the embedded operating leverage and clarity of purpose to deliver superior value to
you, our shareholders, particularly as the environment improves.
Thank you again for dialing in, and I'm happy to answer your questions.
Q&A
Operator
Company Name: Goldman Sachs
Company Ticker: GS US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 19
[Operator Instructions] Please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question. Your first question comes
from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI. Please go ahead.
<Q - Glenn Paul Schorr>: Hi. Thanks very much.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Hey. Morning, Glenn.
<Q - Glenn Paul Schorr>: Good morning. Harvey, maybe we pick up where you left off on the whole cyclical versus
structural debate in FICC, and I heard everything you said and I think you're right and I think you are who you say you
are for your clients. But I look at the backdrop and I say the Europeans are actually starting to need to adjust their
balance sheets and shrink parts of the business. And so the thought of Goldman maintaining its optionality all these
years, this would seem like the payoff, and yet a pickup in volatility in several asset classes it feels like actually the
world that was coming your way but yet the revenue reduction for Goldman relative to peers and I am not just talking
this quarter, these last couple of quarters, is more pronounced. I am just trying to do the smell test of why is that?
Because I actually do think that things are lining up that you'd be more important to your clients, not less. And there
would be more opportunities, not less?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So, well, first of all completely agree with that thesis. Maybe let's back up a little bit and
I think it's worth having a discussion because I think the easy way to have it is to sort of break it down into three parts.
Let's just talk about the quarter for a minute. Obviously a tough quarter for us in fixed income. But if you think about
how we're running the business, I think that's the more important two parts. If you look back over the last several years
at the expense initiatives we've taken where we've reduced head count in fixed income by more than 10%. We've
shrunk the balance sheet by 20%. And if you actually look at it on an RWA basis, since we switched over to Basel III,
we've really very thoughtfully managed the capital deployment. So in this part of the cycle, we have been very
disciplined about how we manage those resources.
Now of course, your thesis is our thesis, which is we're in a deep and somewhat long cyclical part of the FICC cycle.
But when you think of the forward, our construction simplified is twofold. Our level of engagement with our clients
tells us clients still need the services. It's like M&A, Glenn. M&A, the services weren't active in 2009 and 2010, people
questioned whether or not M&A would come back. But our dialog told us that client engagement and the services we
provide as a liquidity provider were important.
So when we think about the forward and we hear the announcements and we're in this part of the cycle, but it's going to
take a while for that to transition through because I think so far it's been more about announcements than a
retrenchment and you won't really see the outlook and all the steps we've taken until you see a pickup in client activity
and the competitive environment continue to shift. That may take a while. But in the meantime, look, we'll benefit as a
firm because we're diversified and so you saw a pickup in certain part of equities, you've seen the strength in banking.
But certainly a tougher quarter for us in fixed income this quarter.
<Q - Glenn Paul Schorr>: Maybe just the last follow-up on the FICC conversation is, how if any does the new
Volcker reporting requirements change how you manage the business, how you report it, I'm just curious because we
can't see any of that?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: No, no change to how we manage the business. Any steps in terms of Volcker adoption
happened a number of years ago where we shut down certain business. And all of the U.S. firms are subject to the same
rule set in Volcker, so not an issue. I really think it's a question of client environment. In the third quarter, the
environment for all the factors I mentioned was very challenging. It was hard for us. And if you go back to the first
quarter, the first quarter environment was one with more activity and better performance on our part. But we don't want
to overreact to a particular quarter.
<Q - Glenn Paul Schorr>: Okay. I appreciate that. Thank you.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Thanks, Glenn.
Company Name: Goldman Sachs
Company Ticker: GS US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 19
Operator
Your next question is from the line of Michael Carrier of Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.
<Q - Michael R. Carrier>: Thanks, Harvey.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Hi, Michael.
<Q - Michael R. Carrier>: Hi. Just first you mentioned some of your comments on the commodity, I guess, pressures
in the quarter. Just wanted to get kind of an update. When you guys look at commodities and that, whatever you want
to call it asset class, just how do you view your exposure to that part of the market or the economy? And then when you
look at it from a client base, what has been happening? Meaning, are the clients in those areas less active, more active
and are you seeing that spread to any other areas of the economy?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So in terms of the exposure, we're not a big lender to the energy space. I think the best
way to characterize it for you is just to take a look at two parts of that. First, any of our funded exposure to
non-investment grade parts of the sector is a bit over $1.5 billion, $1.6 billion. And the other sector, which obviously
came into focus in the quarter, is the trading houses. And we're less than $200 million in exposure to those trading
houses. So they're not – as I said, we're not a big lender, not an important part of our business.
In terms of the aggregate impact in terms of client activity, things have been moving so quickly that sometimes that's
advantageous to client activity and it tends to be when things are more trending. I think the whole world is adjusting to
basically a longer-term consideration of commodity prices being lower in the intermediate term. And ultimately that
will be a catalyst for activity as clients consider hedging strategies, as they think about financing alternatives, as clients
and companies struggle for refinancing. So lower for longer in commodity prices, while very good for the consumer
and the global consumer and the broader economy, which is also a tailwind, certainly should be a catalyst for client
activity also.
<Q - Michael R. Carrier>: Okay. Thanks. And then just as a follow-up maybe on capital in the ratios, if you had the
CET1 maybe like the fully phased [ph] immerse of the (24:59) transitional and then just given the GSIB buffer, just any
outlook in terms of where you think you would run that? And the buyback pace just seemed like it ramped up. I know
you guys have been saying it's backward weighted, but it just seemed like this quarter was, it's probably a bit sooner
than expected. So just wanted to understand, is that because of the movement in the stock? Or is it just the plan with the
CCAR process being pretty normal from what you guys expected?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Yeah, so on the capital ratio, so with the GSIB buffer finalized, that puts us at 10% and
obviously we have a lot of capacity above that. Our target zone would be 50 basis points to 100 basis points above that
if you were just looking at that set of metrics. And obviously, our supplementary leverage ratios in very good shape at
5.8%. But CCAR is our binding constraints and so at least it has been.
In terms of the share repurchase capacity and what we'll do, obviously as you know, we don't disclose that. We don't
disclose it for the very simple fact that we don't want our shareholders to think of share repurchase as dividends, and
we also reserve and really look forward to actually deploying the capital back into the business. In terms of the
mechanics of what is possible, part of the profile that you saw over the last two quarters certainly dictated by the
specifics of the test. But to the extent in which we use the capacity over the next three quarters as I said in my earlier
remarks, you should expect it to be more back-end weighted than you've seen in the prior two quarters if that's helpful.
<Q - Michael R. Carrier>: Okay. Yeah, and then just the CET1, if you had the fully phased in, I think you guys gave
the transitional.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So on Standardized or are you talking about Advanced?
<Q - Michael R. Carrier>: I mean, if you have both, but Advanced probably more so.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: [indiscernible] (26:58) So on a transitional Advanced, 12.7%, fully phased in 11.9%. On
Standardized 12.4% and fully phased 11.7%. So as I said, a lot of capacity over our 10% minimum and our operating
Company Name: Goldman Sachs
Company Ticker: GS US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 19
range of 10.5% to 11%.
<Q - Michael R. Carrier>: Got it. Thanks a lot.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Okay.
Operator
Your next question is from the line of Christian Bolu with Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Hey, Christian. Good morning.
Operator
And, Christian, check your phone to see if your line is on mute, sir.
<Q - Christian Bolu>: Hello. Good morning. Can you hear me now?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Yeah, sure.
<Q - Christian Bolu>: Sorry about that. I'll ask the FICC question another way as it's a focus of investors this
morning. I guess three of the last four quarters, performance has lagged pairs. How do you rationalize this? Is it a
business mix or a customer mix issue? And then looking forward, just a better market backdrop or is there any
proactive steps you can take to improve performance?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Well, there's always things we could do better. We're not perfect. So we always look at
them. You know Christian, we don't see as much value in comparing revenues, certainly revenues quarter-to-quarter
movements, but we certainly study them and we look for any valuable insights. But I think if you really look to the
quarter-to-quarter noise, you run the risk of over-steering the business. So for example in the first quarter, we didn't
gleam huge value out of that in terms of comparing to competitors. I don't know how much value we'll get out of it this
quarter. And we don't have a lot of visibility into their businesses. Our focus has to be on a handful of things, most
importantly our client engagements and then our profit margins, the risk management and the ultimate returns. And so
that's really what we'll focus on in FICC.
Now, it's interesting because you brought up the issue of volatility of revenues and I make a couple of important points.
If you look over the years, revenues don't really tell a great story. And as a shareholder, you want a collection of
businesses. And if you actually look at our performance, consistency of ROE, and returns and earnings, we're the most
stable. And so it really is about firm-wide earnings, not revenues. Anyway, I don't know if that helps you or not.
<Q - Christian Bolu>: Yeah. No, that helps and thanks for the clarifications. Maybe just a broader question on pricing
power in the business. I guess what lessons have you learned from the price increases implemented in the prime
brokerage business? From what we can see, revenue generation has not suffered at all for any of the top players. Maybe
does it tell you that the industry has more leverage in pricing? And maybe can we expect this in other business to
maybe offset some of the weaker activity trends?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So I think there's two things driving here. First is a question of really strength of
franchise. And we had a long, long history of being a dominant player in the prime brokerage business, and I think it
really is the value proposition that we offer our clients globally that is the differentiator in that business. I think the
capital rules as they've come into play, and the balance sheet impact of those capital rules and the cost has forced a very
natural re-pricing in terms of how much balance sheet we and the industry can provide the client, and clients are being
very judicious about that. But they're also then making a differentiated judgment about who the best value providers are
and we're certainly one of those. And so we are seeing pricing power.
<Q - Christian Bolu>: Any other businesses you think you can accept that pricing power?
Company Name: Goldman Sachs
Company Ticker: GS US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 19
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So certainly as we talked about in the past, from time to time when activity has picked
up, I don't know necessarily when I call it pricing power as much as I'd call it an absence of competition but certainly in
the commodity space, several quarters ago, there was a lot of activity, where certainly competition which if you want to
call that pricing power, I think of it a little differently but certainly clients were willing to engage us differently. And
then in the derivative businesses globally as you're seeing firms exit parts of the CDS business and other parts of the
equity derivative businesses, I think it's early days. But certainly you're seeing a reduction in competition and that
translates into pricing power or maybe better said, better returns.
<Q - Christian Bolu>: Great. That's helpful. Thank you, Harvey.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Thanks, Christian.
Operator
Your next question is from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Hey, Matt.
<Q - Matthew Derek O'Connor>: Actually, first, just a quick follow-up to that very last comment you made about
some re-pricing in parts of equity derivatives. I haven't heard that before. Maybe I haven't been paying attention, but
what area is there?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So it's really two parts. We've seen some of it in Europe where competition used to be
sort of more significant. But also given the requirements around collateral rules and things like that where you may
have at times had marginal participants actually price things at levels where we would have thought the risk return
didn't make sense. Now you're seeing more rational and improved pricing. I'd say that's a general trend.
<Q - Matthew Derek O'Connor>: Okay. And then just separately, can you give us an update on the bank deposit and
lending strategy? You obviously announced a deal to acquire some deposits and had a key hire in the lending side, I
think, in the second quarter. So just give us an update on what you're thinking there and will we see this business grow
to be meaningful at some point?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So sure. Great question. And the way – the first thing I'm going to emphasize on that
question is really the separation between a liability strategy and a potential asset strategy. So these two things are
completely separate, but I think it's natural that people would link them. The online deposit strategy where we've
requested approval for the deposit platform, that really is all about funding diversification. We had spent some time
contemplating building our own platform. This platform became available. It seemed attractive and timely for us and
for GE, but we would do that independently of any asset-driven strategy.
Now in terms of a digitally-led lending strategy, which you talked about, there's not a lot to update you on since we last
talked. We're thrilled to have Harit on board as our partner. He brings a wealth of knowledge. We feel like there's a
handful of reasons why we may be able to have an impact on this space here. One, our real core competencies in risk
management and technology, and we feel like we may be able to provide a differentiated product that is accretive to the
firm's current returns. But it's going be slow-going. Obviously we've built lots of businesses at Goldman Sachs. This is
a new business. Again, it's great to have Harit here because he brings all the expertise, and when we have more to talk
to you about, we'll certainly update you. But it's going to be very deliberate in terms of its development.
<Q - Matthew Derek O'Connor>: And I guess just a quick follow-up. On the funding side, as we think about the
deposits growing over time, is that something that'll benefit you in downturns or is it also something that'll benefit the
earnings incrementally from lower funding costs?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: I think it's twofold. We have always been very conservative about our liquidity profile,
and a part of being conservative is about being diversified. So we're always looking for diversification and we're always
looking for cost effectiveness. But when we think about liability management, again it's really about making sure we
have the strongest financial footings at any given point in time.
Company Name: Goldman Sachs
Company Ticker: GS US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 19
<Q - Matthew Derek O'Connor>: Okay. Thanks for taking my questions.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Thank you.
Operator
Your next question is from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
<Q - Elizabeth Lynn Graseck>: Hi. Good morning.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Hey, Betsy. How are you?
<Q - Elizabeth Lynn Graseck>: Good. So just a question about how you think about your market share. As you
indicated, revenues are a tough way to measure things because people have different positions and marks, et cetera. So
I'm interested in understanding how you think about how you're doing on market share, really from a transaction side. I
know you talk about client engagement, so thinking that from a transaction perspective, ignoring the P&L impact,
where do you feel you're standing your various businesses?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So I know you're asking the question narrowly, but in terms of running those businesses
and particularly FICC, it really is multipart. So our client engagement in the businesses that we're focused on feels quite
good. So for example, we're not the biggest emerging market firm, as you know, because we don't have offices in 100
countries and it's never been the biggest part of our footprint. There are certainly always things that we're focused on,
and if you think about our client base, we're more skewed, I think, because we're not the biggest lender in the globe.
We're more skewed to professional money managers and investors. And you can see their activity move around. But
we feel good about our client engagement and our market shares. But the reason I said it's a multipart question is it's not
just about clients, although they are the most important part. In running these businesses, it really is about margins,
returns, over the long term.
<Q - Elizabeth Lynn Graseck>: Okay. Then separately, on the I&L space, last quarter you gave a very helpful
dissection of a third, a third, a third in terms of revenue flows that were a function of public marks versus not so public
versus private. Do you have any kind of breakdown on how the quarter was impacted by that?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Sure. So let's just maybe step back. So at the end of the second quarter, the I&L balance
sheet was $89 billion, and roughly 75% of that is debt-related. So the balance, really equity-related and then it breaks
out, but the breakout I gave you last time really was public equities, which were down, and they trafficked more or less
in line with global markets, and they started $4 billion at the quarter. And so certainly, there was just the path to be
mark-to-market. And then in private equity, the vast majority of the performance that offset the public portfolio was
event-related. And by event-related, I mean sales, pending sales, IPOs, and we really benefited from the idiosyncratic
nature of the portfolio. We're not large, for example, in some of the hardest hit sectors, like energy and that kind of
stuff.
<Q - Elizabeth Lynn Graseck>: Okay. Thanks very much.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Thank you.
Operator
Your next question is from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA. Please go ahead.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: Hi.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Good morning, Mike.
Company Name: Goldman Sachs
Company Ticker: GS US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 19
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: Questions on trading, both equities and fixed income. What percent is electronic or automated,
and how does that compare to five years ago? And then the second question is, kind of what percent of the business
would you say pricing is more rational than it's been in the past?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So on the second part, I'd say the trend is improving in terms of rational pricing, but it's
in a market where client engagement from quarter to quarter has been very different, right? So we saw it in the first
quarter. We saw less in the second quarter. I think that I would answer the electronic trading question as sort of long
term. The secular trend, which has been in place long before the crisis, that just continues and to some extent is aided
by the creation of [ph] SEFs (40:26) and things. This quarter, what we've seen in the past, what we saw in this quarter,
where when volatility's quite severe, particularly in the equity markets, clients really look to de-risk or add risk and
they tend to trade electronically. So I would say it's a trend, but I don't have the specific numbers for you, Mike, in
terms of the quarter contribution of electronic versus cash. But we can certainly get you that stuff.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: I mean, can you just give even a ballpark? Is electronic 5%, 10%, 20%, 50%? Just any sort of
ballpark figure.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Well, I don't want to guess at a ballpark. Certainly, in the third quarter, there was a
meaningful pickup in electronic activity relative to cash in the equities business. And again, I don't want to guess at a
number for you, Mike. But we're happy to get you one.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: Sure. And then just a follow-up on the pricing, what areas in particular are you seeing the best
pricing improvement in trading?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So I'd say balance sheet intensive businesses broadly, and that really is as firms globally
around the world digest capital requirements and have to be more thoughtful about the marginal deployment of balance
sheet. And then other things that are potentially balance sheet consumers, like longer-dated derivative swaps. And
certainly, when commodities has picked up, we have seen circumstances where, and this is obviously augmented by the
fact that the trading houses have gone through some pretty significant pressure now. We're seeing reduced competition.
But again, it's harder to see it certainly translate through unless the client activity levels are high. I think that's why
we're seeing this big back-and-forth swing between a quarter like the first quarter where we had a 14.7% ROE, and
then this quarter, we have a much tougher quarter.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: All right. Thank you.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Thanks, Mike.
Operator
Your next question is from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Autonomous Research. Please go ahead.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Good morning, Guy.
<Q - Guy Moszkowski>: Good morning. So I just wanted to follow up a little bit, first, on the composition of the
change in revenues in equities in FICC from the second quarter to the third quarter. In FICC, you alluded, I think, to
rates first off as having contributed significantly, and then you mentioned credit and mortgages. Was that kind of the
ordering of the degree to which they impacted the revenue move?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Mortgages was a bigger driver if you're doing year-over-year comparables.
<Q - Guy Moszkowski>: Right. But I mean for the second quarter to third quarter shift.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Mortgages remain challenged. The biggest driver was interest rates and then followed by
mortgages.
<Q - Guy Moszkowski>: Okay. So the widening of credit spreads that was actually pretty significant in the quarter
didn't really – it wasn't as impactful overall on FICC as just what was going on in rates and mortgages?
Company Name: Goldman Sachs
Company Ticker: GS US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 19
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Yeah, no, we saw it more in those two businesses, but it was still challenging obviously
for credit markets.
<Q - Guy Moszkowski>: And then really so the same question for equities, you talked in the release on a
year-over-year basis about cash versus derivatives, but can you talk about as you moved from second quarter to third
quarter, what was driving the change in client execution?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So it's pretty straightforward. Obviously lots of volatility in Asia, which had an impact on
the entire market structure in terms of how global markets responded. But basically there is a bit of a shift I talked
about earlier. Tougher market conditions in Asia and then a shift to electronic activity, which boosted commissions and
fees.
<Q - Guy Moszkowski>: Got it. And then just a final question, which I think is going to relate to I&L. In the release,
you alluded to a pretty hefty decline in Level 3 assets linked quarter, about 15%. Is that largely driven by I&L? And if
so, can you give us a sense for how much of the reduction is due to actual runoff or planned portfolio sales versus just
the impact of negative marks?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: A pretty meaningful driver was actually monetizations and harvesting. That was really
the driver.
<Q - Guy Moszkowski>: So actually underlying the negative mark-to-market on the public portfolio, it really does
sound like there was very significant positive activity in terms of just being able to reduce positions.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Yeah, I wouldn't – in terms of reduced positions, you mean in terms of harvesting, is just
the way [indiscernible] (45:27)
<Q - Guy Moszkowski>: Yeah, monetizations [ph] really sized (45:28), let's put it that way.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Yeah, no, the portfolio did well. As I said, the vast majority of the driver of the
performance in the portfolio came from event-driven things like IPOs, asset sales. Obviously the public portfolio
suffered with public markets.
<Q - Guy Moszkowski>: And in terms of the – just to follow up on exactly that comment, would it be as
straightforward as just saying the public portfolio was $4 billion in equities? The MSCI, as you alluded to, was down
about 10% that the mark there would be about that or is it more complex than that?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: It can be different from quarter to quarter, but I would say that's pretty reasonable.
<Q - Guy Moszkowski>: Okay. Thanks, Harvey.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Thanks so much.
Operator
Your next question is from the line of Fiona Swaffield with RBC. Please go ahead.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Hey, Fiona.
<Q - Fiona M. Swaffield>: Hi. Just two things. One is the difference between the CET1 ratios, mostly the difference
between Advanced and Standardized has gone down quite a lot, and it seems to be something to do – I just wondered is
it operational risk, RWAs? I don't know if you could talk through the differences in those numbers. And the second is
just a geographic question. I mean you've alluded to Asia a few times, but could you kind of give us a feel for
year-on-year geographic revenues or kind of trends, EMEA versus Asia, and whether there's any big change versus Q2?
Thanks.
Company Name: Goldman Sachs
Company Ticker: GS US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 19
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Yeah, so in terms of the ratios in Advanced – and there was a pickup in operational,
which impacted operational, but the real driver in the improvement of the ratios was fund harvesting and general risk
reduction. And you're seeing it more in Standardized because obviously there are things that are not risk-centric which
impact that more like things like clearing and other things and notionals. And so that's why you're seeing the
compression. In terms of geography, it's been pretty much 55% in the U.S., and then the balance is really two-thirds
EMEA and one-third Asia.
<Q - Fiona M. Swaffield>: What time period would that be? Is that Q3?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: That's this quarter.
<Q - Fiona M. Swaffield>: Great. Thank you.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Thanks.
Operator
Your next question is from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research. Please go ahead.
<Q - James F. Mitchell>: Hey. Good morning.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Hey. Good morning.
<Q - James F. Mitchell>: Just a question on the M&A outlook. I think there's been some concern with the disruptions
in the market in U.S. hitting the record level that the M&A cycle might be peaking. I just wanted to get your thoughts
on that. Seems like number of deals haven't really moved, international volume still remained very low. So just maybe
some thoughts on how you guys think about where we are in the M&A cycle given some of the concerns out there.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So the two factors that obviously we rely on most is the backlog and the pipeline is good.
And as I said, it was up at the end of the third quarter. And then really the most significant information component for
us is the level of dialog that boards, CEOs are having, and the dialog feels quite good. I think it's always natural for
folks to question when the market has been robust, whether there's information content in the actual activity level as
peaking. And maybe that's a factor, but when you look at past cycles, they've been more significantly driven by LBO
activity where certainly you can get to market capacity and how much debt can be borrowed.
And it's 100% accurate to note that certainly the cost of financing is a contributor to the transactions that are happening
today but they're much more strategic and a reflection of slower global growth and how competent CEOs are at this
stage. And that could always get disrupted, you can have a market event but I don't know necessarily that the aggregate
activity levels to-date are the best indicators that they would slow down. If anything, some of these large transactions
very naturally have spinoffs and foster other activity across industries. So I don't know that – that wouldn't be the most
significant factor we'd look at.
<Q - James F. Mitchell>: So you would kind of think of the large deals as maybe potentially a leading indicator
because a lot of the smaller deals – the number of deals have been lagging.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: That's correct. But so if you get large deals in a sector, it can have a knockdown effect
and you get spinoffs. That can be a leading activity for more activity. But I think in short, our indicators tell us that the
current environment continues, a level of activity will be high. Again that could always change. Lots of things in the
world can shift.
<Q - James F. Mitchell>: Sure. Okay, and maybe just a follow-up on the balance sheet. I think if I look at your
disclosures, you guys' balance sheet was up to a level we haven't seen in a – I think over a year. I think balance sheet
was up $20 billion plus quarter-over-quarter, yet it was a volatile environment. You look like you pulled back on risk,
at least in the VaR. Can you kind of just help me think through that? You didn't close on the deposit franchise
acquisition this quarter, third quarter.
Company Name: Goldman Sachs
Company Ticker: GS US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 19
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: No, no, no. That's subject to regulatory approval.
<Q - James F. Mitchell>: Right, right.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: No. The balance sheet growth when you cut through it is really all driven by prime
brokerage activity. And so it's all client driven in terms of client assets that came in during the course of the quarter.
<Q - James F. Mitchell>: Just sort of interesting, putting on leverage or...
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: No. Actually you get some of these effects when people delever actually. You can get
cash that comes in and – actually comes into the balance sheet, so client assets can grow, partial driver.
<Q - James F. Mitchell>: Right. Okay. Thanks a lot.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: No problem.
Operator
Your next question is from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer. Please go ahead.
<Q - Christopher M. Kotowski>: Yeah, hi. Your comp ratio on a full-year basis has been kind of trending down ever
since like the last couple of years and you were able to keep the year-to-date comp ratio flat at 40% with revenues
being down a percent. Going into the fourth quarter, how should we think about the full-year comp ratio in terms of
that there'd be upward pressure on it if the full-year revenues miss a bit more from here or continued downward
pressure if the fourth quarter ends up being better and driving you above where you were last year?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So I mean, no change to the compensation philosophy. The 40% at this point of year is
our best estimate. And we'll have to see. I can't predict the outcome for you in terms of where the euro land. Obviously
we have spent a number of years really building in pretty significant operating leverage, but we'll have to see how the
year plays out, but we'll go through our normal bottoms-up, top-down process.
<Q - Christopher M. Kotowski>: Okay. All right. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question is from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS. Please go ahead.
<Q - Brennan McHugh Hawken>: Morning, Harvey.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Morning.
<Q - Brennan McHugh Hawken>: You made a point in the press release about the IB backlog building. And just was
kind of curious whether or not in your view that's a function of improving business outlook or just deals getting held up
due to market volatility in some of the trends that we saw impact the equity underwriting line.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Yeah, so all parts of the backlog were up. The biggest part of the backlog that was up
was equity underwriting. And part of that is the markets being more challenged in part of the season, but I think the
more important takeaway is less about market influence over the quarter and more about activity levels, client
confidence, which certainly at times for CEOs would have been tested as we came during the quarter, but the
transactions that they're contemplating are very long term and strategic. And so I think it speaks more to corporate
confidence than anything else.
<Q - Brennan McHugh Hawken>: Okay. All right. Thanks for that color. And then thinking about that point and then
connecting it to I&L and the commentary around monetization events and such. Can you help us understand how, when
the exit strategy or ability to use the IPOs or equity markets is weaker? How you guys were able to have an uptick in
monetization and episodic events in I&L? I was just trying to connect those two dots, please.
Company Name: Goldman Sachs
Company Ticker: GS US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 19
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So again it just speaks to the idiosyncratic nature of the portfolio. It won't always
necessarily be this way in a quarter. But there will be opportunities for us to sell assets. And in taking companies public
and those kind of things, those are usually on a schedule. They usually don't happen instantaneously. They can certainly
get delayed by market activity. But I can't answer the question any better for you than it's the nature of the portfolio.
<Q - Brennan McHugh Hawken>: Okay. And I mean did you rely on M&A in addition to IPO, it sounds like you're
purely relying on the IPO market, right?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: There is IPOs, private sales, they can come in a number of different forms. So there are
certainly transactions that you wouldn't see the public eye. Parts of the portfolio are in real estate. Not really heavy in
financials or anything like that, not heavy in energy. So that gives you some of the background of why maybe the
portfolio on its surface would have performed better than you might have expected.
<Q - Brennan McHugh Hawken>: Great. Thanks for the color, Harvey.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Yeah.
Operator
Your next question's from the line of Steven Chubak of Nomura Securities. Please go ahead.
<Q - Steven J. Chubak>: Hi. Good morning.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Good morning, Steven.
<Q - Steven J. Chubak>: So, Harvey, I appreciated all your comments on the broader fixed strategy, how you're
staying committed to the business, but at the same time, aren't going be complacent. And just looking at some of the
capital metrics, it feels as though the RWAs have been flat to maybe on a slightly downward trajectory. But we haven't
seen any meaningful change in terms of capital and risk allocations. I just wanted to get a sense as to in trying – at least
making a concerted effort not to simply be complacent whether you're going to look to shrink risks in any meaningful
way within that business, if the pressures persist on the revenue side?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So the risk reduction, again we'll level set it since we [indiscernible] (56:28) the risk
reduction is pretty significant, right? RWAs are down a third across ICS which is mostly FICC. And so I think the risk
reduction efforts, the balance sheet reduction and the cost reduction exercises have been pretty significant. So I don't
think we can be accused of being complacent around the cycle. Again this is about finding that right balance. If the
cycle continues and it's tough, we will continue to evaluate the business. That is an ongoing process that never stops. If
the cycle picks up, then we will obviously participate in that because we feel good about the competitive environment
and our client engagement.
Now away from FICC, obviously, we're doing lots of other things. So I talked about the fact that we made a number of
acquisitions in asset management and that fee-based business continues to grow and be a better part of the firm.
Obviously, full engagement in IBD. And all the merger activity and their performance I think has been stellar. So there
is a lot going on under the hood in terms of reallocating resources but we are being very disciplined about the FICC
business during this part of the cycle as you'd expect us to be.
<Q - Steven J. Chubak>: Thanks for that, Harvey. And it's a fair point on the RWAs. I was talking more on a
near-term context over the last few quarters, but certainly since we've been monitoring all the Basel III measures,
you've made pretty substantial progress.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Yeah, and I also think, look, I think if you look at our capital management and the capital
we've been able to return over the last several years, we've been as judicious as we can given the capital rules. And
managing the firm in a way to make sure that the financial footings are perfectly solid.
Company Name: Goldman Sachs
Company Ticker: GS US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 19
<Q - Steven J. Chubak>: Since you mentioned the capital rules, just one quick follow-up. The G-SIB buffers have all
been published by the Fed. It looks like you guys fell into the 3% bucket. And just wanted to get a sense as to whether
you see any opportunities to optimize or shrink into that lower buffer of 2.5%? Or given that CCAR is your binding
constraint, at least for the moment, there's maybe not such a pressing need to do that?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So, well, I think, big picture, the first thing we'll do, obviously, in any opportunity that
we think we can reduce our systemic footprint. Now that the rule is finalized, obviously, we would look to do that. I
think that's just good practice. I think the tradeoff, obviously, is whether or not in making those reductions does that
really impact your ability to deliver to clients, now the rules are finalized, there are certainly things we can do. As you
said, we're not bound currently by our stated capital ratios. CCAR's our constraint. We'll have to see how CCAR
evolves over time. That certainly could be an influence because it could ultimately re-price the cost of that capital
relative to the services we provide, but I think it's a bit early for that, at least for us.
<Q - Steven J. Chubak>: All right. Thanks for taking my questions, Harvey.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Thank you.
Operator
Your next question's from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities. Please go ahead.
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: Thanks.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Hey, Eric.
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: Hi. How are you? Just to follow-up on the I&L discussion, can you give us a sense of how
we should think about sort of the quarter-to-quarter risk management practices within that unit given how market
volatility can have such a profound effect on revenue recognition in any given period?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Well, again, I think one of the things to point out is if you think about the transformation
of the I&L balance sheet over the last several years, it has changed pretty significantly. The composition today, as I
said earlier, is really 75% debt, and roughly two-thirds of that is HFI accounting, which is just good old-fashioned bank
accounting. The balance is equities, and if you compare that – for example, go back to 2011. In 2011, I think our whole
portfolio was north of 50% equities. And so the composition of the portfolio has changed significantly.
Now, if you're going to have a $4 billion public equity portfolio, which is the result of us monetizing assets out of the
portfolio, and we're in a sell-down process, if the markets move around a lot, that's going to move around a lot. And
ultimately, if the markets decline for extended periods of times or increase for extended periods, obviously, that drives
value of underlying assets and it drives activity for all businesses in all industries. But the portfolio composition has
changed pretty dramatically over the last several years. And I know when you talk about the volatility, I can't help but
remind you that, over long periods of time, I&L has been a pretty big driver of book value.
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: Yeah, no, certainly. I mean, I guess my – I'm trying to make sure I sort of fully understand.
Given that so much of the, at least, equity opportunity does come from seed investments that have then hit their
liquidation strategy, sort of, how that shifts the risk management discussion when you move from an illiquid to a liquid
asset, whose risk parameters are somewhat different?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Yeah. So we obviously consider that. I think the most important risk component of the
discussion is about the point of actually establishing the investment. And it's – and that's a long-term process of being
disciplined. That has to be the philosophy. So look, if we see a number of quarters of back-to-back declining in
markets, that may be the right time to actually being – to put capital to work, which is why we run with excess capital
and we run with excess liquidity because we want to be there for those opportunities and we want to be there for our
clients. So we size the risk of the investment at the point of making it. Once you have it, you can certainly do things,
but prudent risk management really is at the point of the initial decision.
Company Name: Goldman Sachs
Company Ticker: GS US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 16 of 19
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: Got it. No, that makes a lot of sense. And if I can just sneak in one quick follow-up on the
RWA discussion within the trading businesses, was there any real change in RWA over the course of the quarter?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: There was. I mean, in Advanced, we finished the quarter at $570 billion. That was down
a little bit. In Standardized, we finished at $582 billion, which we would expect to be down given the move I gave you
in the ratios earlier.
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: And presumably, mostly out of FICC or somewhere else?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Sorry, what was that?
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: I was just saying, was that mostly because of changes in FICC composition or something
else?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Well, the big mover was really end market, which, in Advanced, went from $136 billion
down to $119 billion and, in Standardized, went from $137 billion down to $120 billion and that really was about
de-risking.
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: Great. Thanks very much.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Thank you.
Operator
Your next question's from the line of Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks. Please go ahead.
<Q - Marty Lacey Mosby>: Thanks. Good morning, Harvey.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Morning, Marty.
<Q - Marty Lacey Mosby>: I want to give you a chance to stop the drumbeat that I've had on leveling out this comp
ratio through the year, when you mentioned earlier that some consistency of returns for the whole company and not the
volatility of revenues. So just wanted to see whether or not you think coincidentally the way that this lines up, as you
go through the calendar year, revenues are typically stronger in the first half and you get the comp ratio benefit in the
second half and somehow coincidentally that kind of hedges each other. I just wanted to get your thoughts on that.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So we don't do it that way. It's not the way we think about it. There are some seasonality
to the business which historically has been the case for the entire industry. As it relates to the compensation ratio, from
a quarter to quarter, we just make our best estimate of where we think the performance of the firm is and what the
compensation ratio should be. In the fourth quarter, we'll go through our normal process, which again will be firm
performance driven, then to the businesses and then to the individuals and it will be top down and bottoms up and we'll
just have to see where things turn out for the fourth quarter.
<Q - Marty Lacey Mosby>: So that's why I was mentioning coincidentally. I know you don't tie them together like
that but it kind of works out in the favor of kind of stabilizing as you go through the year. The second thing I was going
to ask you was you mentioned the acquisitions in the asset managers. And what we used to do is look at certain
businesses where you could really leverage your economic capital while not really impacting your regulatory capital.
And I thought this is probably a business that might fit under that category and just thought is that kind of how you
look at it? And also are there other businesses you might be able to take advantage of that in?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So we're always looking really at the core. We're always looking at ways where we can
enhance the client experience. And so all the acquisitions which I mentioned, they really break out into three large
buckets. Secular growth opportunities like advisory, and that is referenced in the Pacific Global Advisors acquisition.
Then there're things like new products capabilities where we certainly develop new products internally but there are
times bolting them on is better for us. And that's – an example of that would be Westpeak and ActiveBeta. And then
there are times where we just want to scale existing products like money markets, and you've seen us do acquisitions in
Company Name: Goldman Sachs
Company Ticker: GS US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 17 of 19
that space. But it really is all about thinking about how we can differentiate with our clients.
Now, from a regulatory capital perspective, we don't necessarily think about that as much as we think about what is the
best way to deploy our capital. Obviously, we have to manage our regulatory capital. But this isn't a result of regulatory
requirements or anything like that. We will always look at acquisitions or ways to grow or deploy our capital that are
long-term accretive for the firm. We want all our businesses to grow, obviously, those that consume more regulatory
capital and those that consume less.
<Q - Marty Lacey Mosby>: And those that have a little less are a little more efficient in the use of the capital that you
have. But thanks, and I appreciate your comments.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Thank you.
Operator
Your next question's from the line of Brian Kleinhanzl with KBW. Please go ahead.
<Q - Brian M. Kleinhanzl>: Great. Thanks. So I just had a quick question on the deposit strategy. You mentioned that
was all about the funding diversification. So if you look at the second quarter, deposits were about 12% of total
liabilities. What percentage that need to get to for you to consider that to be your – to reach your diversification levels
that you want?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So it's not so much that we are targeting a specific level. We tend not to target specific
levels around things like that because it's as much about the asset footings as is about liabilities. In our liability
structure, we just like that having a diversified geographic client base source of liabilities. We just think that's prudent
risk management. When you think about it, it's all really about where various investors want to provide capital to the
firm. And so that's how we think about it. So we haven't set a target. We think – the only reason we don't set targets on
things like that is we always are concerned about building up too much of a warehouse of liquidity. We obviously hold
a very significant liquidity cushion at $193 billion. Like, you don't want to feel yourself getting pressed into deploying
those liabilities. You don't want the liabilities to drive your asset strategy. You want your liabilities to inform it and you
want to have diversified safe funding.
<Q - Brian M. Kleinhanzl>: Do you anticipate that there would be some benefit on interest expense over time as you
probably take off maybe short-term borrowings?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: It could be over time. I don't think in terms of the online deposits, I don't see a huge cost
advantage there. Again, it's all going to be about how can we deploy that funding into the asset opportunities.
<Q - Brian M. Kleinhanzl>: Okay. Great. That was my only question.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Thanks.
Operator
Your next question's from the line of Kian Abouhossein with JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
<Q - Kian Abouhossein>: Yeah. Hi. First question relates to commodities. You mentioned – you talked about the
lending exposure, but frankly, I'm not really interested on that. I'm more interested how you manage your counterparty
exposure. And if you can talk a little bit about how you think about these trading entities that you deal with, how you
are managing counterparty exposure considering rating downgrades that we have seen but also concerns about some of
these entities. And if you can just run us a little bit through how you manage counterparty risk on your off balance
sheet exposure.
Company Name: Goldman Sachs
Company Ticker: GS US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 18 of 19
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Yeah, hey, Kian. I'm sorry. You must have missed it. What I was saying before was our
exposure whether it's lending or through [ph] any (01:10:13) derivatives or counterparty exposure to the trading entities
is less than $200 million today.
<Q - Kian Abouhossein>: So that's your net exposure off balance sheet and on balance sheet?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Yeah, correct. That's for the trading houses. Again, they often tend to position themselves
more as competitors than clients.
<Q - Kian Abouhossein>: Yeah.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So that's our current credit exposure.
<Q - Kian Abouhossein>: And just in that context, clearly you must adjust due to rating downgrades as well as your
own view around some of the counterparties, your margins or collateral calls, et cetera. Can you just expand a little bit
to us how you do that? Is there an adjustment happening besides a credit ratings which will drive it?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So we have a long history, obviously, of managing counterparty exposure which has been
tested through pretty volatile markets. And again, the most important decision made at any point in time is when you
establish that credit line. It's really no different than lending but obviously the dynamics are different. And we have a
very diligent marking policy and we monitor collateral calls very vigilantly as you would imagine. And obviously as
sectors are weaker, you're very thoughtful about it but we make these decisions over long-term, we have a lot of
experience doing it.
<Q - Kian Abouhossein>: Okay. And in respect to just going back to your fixed income business, the way I, at least to
myself, explain the weakness – and please correct me if I'm incorrect – is the fact that you're weak on macro and
weaker in corporate, which is probably correlated and you're strong in credit and hedge fund business. And first of all,
is that an incorrect assumption relative to your peers, I mean, especially some of your money-centered peers? And
secondly, if I am correct, what are you doing – do you think about diversifying more of the business into and
particularly as a macro business? And what are you doing to adjust that mix?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: So again I don't have great visibility into the competitors. I would say I do think there
were two obvious things which I talked about before. We're not that big in emerging markets. Again, we don't have a
footprint in hundreds of offices. And we're not as big a lender to corporates. Our competitors are much greater lenders
than we are. And so that certainly can influence your client base. In terms of macro, I think you're wrong about that.
And certainly in commodities, we've had a long history of being commodities and it feels now like we're bigger in
commodities as a number of competitors have pulled away from the business. That – those are the insights I would give
you in terms of what I can see.
In terms of things we're trying to do, we feel pretty good about the diversified business. I mean if you think about the
course of the year, to be sitting here basically nearly flat revenues, with our fee-based businesses, picking up activity,
which is compensating for capital intensive parts of the firm which you would expect to be more challenged in this kind
of market environment, look, at the end of the day, when you adjust for legacy costs, we're at nearly 12% ROE, I know
the business feels pretty diversified.
<Q - Kian Abouhossein>: So you don't see this argument valid of [ph] being more (01:13:55) credits geared rather
than macro in certain periods of the environment, depending on the environment, we will just perform slightly
differently from some of our peers? You don't see that against your money-centered peers?
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: I think a lot of the peers have different footings. Some are more domestic. Some are more
emerging market based. I think the comparables are harder. I think, look, take a look at the first quarter, in the first
quarter, the way you look at it, we would have outperformed all the peers. That's information for us, but we're not going
to steer the business in a different direction because of that, and we're not going to over-steer it further where their
revenues on the surface would be greater than ours. We are always going to look for ways to improve the business. So
that you should just incorporate by reference.
Company Name: Goldman Sachs
Company Ticker: GS US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 19 of 19
<Q - Kian Abouhossein>: Okay. Very helpful. Thank you.
<A - Harvey M. Schwartz>: Thanks, Kian.
Operator
At this time, there are no further questions. Please continue with any closing remarks.
Harvey M. Schwartz
Since there are no more questions, I'd like to take a moment to thank all of you for joining this call. Hopefully, I and
other members of senior management will see many of you in the coming months. If any additional questions arise,
please don't hesitate to reach out to Dane. Otherwise, enjoy the rest of your day, and I look forward to speaking with
you on our fourth quarter earnings call in January. Take care, everyone.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the Goldman Sachs Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. Thank
you for your participation. You may now disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.