Company Name: H.J. Heinz
Company Ticker: HNZ US
Date: 2015-05-15
Event Description: Q1 2015 Earnings Call
Market Cap: N.A.
Current PX: N.A.
YTD Change($): N.A.
YTD Change(%): N.A.
Bloomberg Estimates - EPS
Current Quarter: N.A.
Current Year: N.A.
Bloomberg Estimates - Sales
Current Quarter: N.A.
Current Year: N.A.
Page 1 of 2
Q1 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Paulo Luiz Araújo Basílio
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good afternoon. My name is Valerie and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to
welcome everyone to the H.J. Heinz Company's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. This call is being
recorded at the request of H.J. Heinz Company.
Today's presentation includes forward-looking statements as defined in the U.S. Securities Laws, which are based on
current expectations, subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances and which are not a guarantee of future
performance. Actual results may differ materially due to a variety of factors, including the risk factors listed in Heinz's
2014 Form 10-K, which was filed on March 13. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking
statement, except as required by law.
Today's remarks will also include non-GAAP financial measures, which are defined in Heinz's earnings press release
issued on May 8. Please also refer to the first quarter 2015 Form 10-Q which was filed with the SEC on May 8. These
and other SEC filings are available on Heinz's website.
I would now like to turn the call over to Paulo Basílio, Executive Vice President and CFO. Mr. Basílio, you may begin
your conference.
Paulo Luiz Araújo Basílio
Good afternoon. Thank you for joining to discuss Heinz's results for the first quarter of calendar 2015. Net revenues
were $2.48 billion in the first quarter, down 11.5% versus the year-ago period, driven by organic net revenue decline of
4.5% and an unfavorable currency impact of 7%. The decline in organic net revenues primarily reflected a comparison
with unusually high product shipments in the prior year period, as the company shipped safety stock to retailers ahead
of commencement of SAP implementation efforts in North America in Q2 2014, as well as the ongoing impact of
product rationalization.
Ketchup and Infant organic revenues grew by single-digits globally, led by Venezuela and Russia, and the company's
Soy Sauce business in China grew by double-digits. However, U.S. revenues were impacted by double-digit declines in
Frozen Meals category, and Europe revenues were impacted by category declines in UK and in Italy.
Adjusted EBITDA of $651 million was down 5.4% versus the year-ago period, driven by an unfavorable currency
impact of 5.8% and the impact of the SAP implementation in North America. Organic adjusted EBITDA was
essentially flat versus the year-ago period. Current quarter results benefited from net price gains and cost savings
mainly driven by the zero-based budgeting and manufacturing footprint optimization.
For full-year 2015, we continue to expect that adjusted EBITDA will increase on a nominal basis relative to full-year
2014 EBITDA of $2.85 billion (sic) [$2.84 billion] despite an anticipated ongoing unfavorable impact from foreign
currency. This performance will be mainly driven by the continuation of our cost savings programs, net price gains in
developed markets, and category growth in emerging markets.
Company Name: H.J. Heinz
Company Ticker: HNZ US
Date: 2015-05-15
Event Description: Q1 2015 Earnings Call
Market Cap: N.A.
Current PX: N.A.
YTD Change($): N.A.
YTD Change(%): N.A.
Bloomberg Estimates - EPS
Current Quarter: N.A.
Current Year: N.A.
Bloomberg Estimates - Sales
Current Quarter: N.A.
Current Year: N.A.
Page 2 of 2
As of March 29, 2015, debt over the last 12 months adjusted EBITDA was 4.9 times versus 6.5 times in the year-ago
period, and net debt over the last 12 months adjusted EBITDA was 4.2 times versus 5.4 times in the year-ago period.
These figures do not include Berkshire Hathaway's preferred stock investment in H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation,
which is the ultimate Parent of H.J. Heinz Corporation II.
Heinz continues to make strong progress in the transformation of our business during the first quarter of the year. First
quarter results were consistent with our expectations and remain on track to deliver our internal targets for the year.
We are confident that our cost discipline and investment in our brands will continue to drive sustainable and profitable
growth.
Thank you and have a great weekend.
Operator
Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.