Company Name: PepsiCo
Company Ticker: PEP US
Date: 2015-10-06
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 11
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Jamie Caulfield
• Indra K. Nooyi
• Hugh F. Johnston
Other Participants
• John A. Faucher
• Dara W. Mohsenian
• Bryan D. Spillane
• Caroline S. Levy
• Judy E. Hong
• Vivien Azer
• Ali Dibadj
• Bill Schmitz
• Kevin Grundy
• William Marshall
• Stephen R. Powers
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call. Your lines have been placed on
listen-only until the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and will be
archived at www.pepsico.com.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr. Jamie Caulfield, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Caulfield, you
may begin.
Jamie Caulfield
Thank you. Joining me on the call today are Indra Nooyi, PepsiCo's Chairman and CEO; and Hugh Johnston, PepsiCo's
CFO. We'll lead off with prepared comments and then turn to Q&A.
As we begin the call, it's important to note the following. We will make forward-looking statements on this call. Any
forward-looking statement inherently involves risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially
from the current predictions and expectations. Information on such risks can be found in today's earnings release and
our most recent Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings.
In addition, we will discuss results using non-GAAP measures, and you can find the GAAP to non-GAAP
reconciliations on our website under the Investors section under Events and Presentations tab.
As a reminder, beginning this quarter, PepsiCo reported its realigned segments. We provided retrospectively revised
summary segment results, reflecting the company's new organization structure in early August. As we covered in this
Company Name: PepsiCo
Company Ticker: PEP US
Date: 2015-10-06
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 11
morning's release, we have changed the accounting for Venezuela operations and consequently will no longer
consolidate their operating results beginning in the fourth quarter. Further details on this can be found in today's
earnings release and the soon-to-be-released third quarter Form 10-Q filing.
And now, it is my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Indra K. Nooyi
Thank you, Jamie, and good morning everyone.
Despite a continued choppy global macro environment, we are happy to report another great quarter at PepsiCo. In the
third quarter organic revenue grew 7.4%, with Global Snacks up 10% and Global Beverages up 5%.
Core gross margin improved by 120 basis points. Core constant currency operating profit increased 12% and core
constant currency EPS increased 14%. Based on our year-to-date performance and our outlook for the balance of the
year, we are increasing our full year 2015 core constant currency EPS growth outlook to 9%. Also, we now plan to
return approximately $9 billion to shareholders through dividends and buybacks with share buybacks at the high end of
the range we had guided to. Hugh will go into additional details of our guidance later.
So let me now comment briefly on our results. We again had very strong results in North America. This comprises over
60% of our net revenue and approximately two-thirds of our core division operating profit year-to-date.
North America Beverages had a terrific quarter, in which, we grew our organic volume by 3%, organic revenue by 5%
and core constant currency operating profit by 10%. During the quarter, we held value share in liquid refreshment
beverages and gained value share across important sub-categories including ready-to-drink tea and water.
Frito-Lay North America delivered another quarter of solid results with organic revenue growth of 2% and core
constant currency operating profit growth of 7%. Core operating margins increased by 155 basis points, reflecting
execution of price-pack architecture management and ongoing productivity initiatives across the value chain.
In Quaker Foods North America, organic revenue increased 2% and core constant currency operating profit increased
1.5%. And operating profit performance is noteworthy given the fact that we are lapping a divestiture gain in the prior
year. Quaker has gained value share in both hot and ready-to-eat cereal both in the quarter and year-to-date.
And we are proud to report that, during the third quarter, PepsiCo was the largest contributor to U.S. retail sales growth
among all food and beverage manufacturers with over $400 million of retail sales growth in all measured channels.
This was double the next largest contributor to growth. Notably, North American Beverages was the key driver of U.S.
retail sales growth within PepsiCo and the largest contributor to U.S. retail sales growth on a standalone basis.
On a year-to-date basis, PepsiCo has contributed over $1.1 billion of retail sales growth in all measured channels,
which again was the largest contributor to U.S. retail sales growth among all food and beverage manufacturers. And
this was nearly 2.5 times the next largest contributor to growth.
Now turning to international markets, in our developing and emerging markets, although we continue to face volatile
and challenging macros in a number of these markets, we are managing what we can control to stay competitive in this
marketplace. And we continue to see good growth in a number of these markets. For example, our business in Turkey
achieved double-digit organic revenue growth. Mexico achieved high-single digit organic revenue growth and Egypt
achieved mid-single digit organic revenue growth.
Now, as we mentioned last quarter, in each of our earnings calls, we would provide an update on our big initiatives that
drive our operating and financial performance: brand building, innovation, execution, productivity and cash returns to
shareholders. On our Q2 earnings call, we talked about innovation. Today, we would focus on productivity, which is
critical to succeed in today's challenging environment. With volatile macros globally and increasingly competitive
landscape with digital technologies disrupting many aspects of our business, productivity has never been more
important. As all of you know well, productivity enables current financial performance and provides investment
Company Name: PepsiCo
Company Ticker: PEP US
Date: 2015-10-06
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 11
funding to sustain growth into the future.
When we think of productivity, we think both in terms of efficiency, which is getting the same result using fewer
resources; and effectiveness, getting a greater result using the same resources. Our productivity initiatives to-date have
been largely focused on efficiency and we've had pretty good results. We delivered $3 billion in productivity between
2012 and 2014 and we're on track to deliver the first year of our current five-year $5 billion program that we started in
2015. And this productivity has been supported in large part by investments we made in technology, starting with our
implementation of SAP in the early-2000s. And this allowed us to establish a common operating language and to
standardize operating metrics across the globe.
We also adopted an operating model that has reduced spans and layers in the organization and has promoted the sharing
of best practices around the world. We also established truly global functions in operations, procurement, IT, HR and
finance as well as very lean category horizontals that are driving greater capability building, harmonization and
efficiency in new product development and global brand management. Together, our technology investments and
operating model are allowing us to leverage our global scale to a much greater extent.
With these foundation elements in place, we have made progress in multiple areas. First, increased automation, we
have installed packaging automation across approximately a third of our snacks plants worldwide, enabling us to
reduce packaging labor costs in these facilities by at least 50%.
In Frito-Lay North America, for example, approximately 65% of all production utilizes fully automated packaging. In
Mexico, we updated the majority of our packaging tubes with high-speed equipment over the last few years, enabling
us to increase throughput by approximately 40%. Across the Middle East, we installed automated palletizing and
warehousing technologies in many key markets, resulting in improvements in labor productivity since 2013.
Second, we are restructuring our go-to-market systems. Since the success of our Perry, Georgia pilot in 2009, we have
expanded our Geographic Enterprise Solutions, or GES as we call them at Frito-Lay North America, to a total of 11
projects which are now at various stages of deployment across locations in both the U.S. and Canada. The
consolidation of these plants and distribution networks will result in scale that enables economic implementation of
automated order picking, the reduction of distribution centers, and a highly efficient direct-to-store delivery system
directly from our plant. This model is also being applied to the North American Beverages business, where we are
combining large format and small format routes in the same trucks, with plans to eliminate geographic overlap,
resulting in 15% fewer routes.
Third, we are optimizing our global manufacturing footprint. Since 2010, we have reduced the number of
company-owned beverage plants in North America by 23%. At the same time, we've increased our capacity utilization
by 20%. In Europe, in the past three years we closed six plants across our beverage and dairy businesses, decreasing
our footprint by 7% and generating more than $20 million of annual savings and further increasing our capacity
utilization.
Finally, in shared services, we are increasingly leveraging shared service centers and selectively outsourcing financial
transaction processing, accounting, reporting, and other back office tasks. To date, the program has been executed in 18
countries, reducing costs while improving analytical capabilities of service levels and streamlining IT infrastructure.
Our efficiency journey is in no way done. In addition to these major supply chain productivity initiatives, we have also
embarked on our version of zero-based budgeting, something we call Smart Spending. We studied ZBB in great detail,
and we realized that implementing it as currently designed ran the risk of starving resources to drive top line growth
initiatives.
Our version of ZBB, or Smart Spending as we call it, focuses on right-sizing our operating expenses now that we are
beginning to see benefits from our technology investments and global coordination, while ring-fencing top line driving
resources to focus more on deriving additional effectiveness from them. And this is a balanced approach, one that
focuses both on the relentless drive for efficiency but preserves investments to drive top line growth, which brings me
to our focus on increasing effectiveness of our spend.
Company Name: PepsiCo
Company Ticker: PEP US
Date: 2015-10-06
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 11
We have expanded our view of productivity to ensure greater effectiveness across every element of spending. Just to
give you a few examples, we are sharpening our capabilities in revenue management to drive greater effectiveness of
promotion and other trade spending. We are building the required tools and training to realize a greater return on our
advertising and marketing investments. And we're developing new product platforms that can scale across multiple
countries rapidly. And all of this is being enabled and accelerated by our lean global category structures.
We believe our approach is working and driving meaningful tangible results. Over the past three years ending in 2014,
we have realized an average of $1 billion of annual productivity savings. Net revenue per employee is up 10%.
Operating profit per employee is up 9%. This quarter marks our 13th consecutive quarter of gross margin expansion.
And from year-end 2011, CapEx as a percent of net revenue went down from 4.9% to 4.1% on a rolling four-quarter
basis.
Importantly, these achievements have contributed to strong free cash flow productivity and core net ROIC
improvement. Since the beginning of 2013 through the third quarter of 2015, we have generated cumulative core free
cash flow, excluding certain items, of more than $22 billion, which represents 115% of core net income over the same
time period. And core net ROIC has increased by 380 basis points to 19.1% at the end of the third quarter 2015
compared to 15.3% at year-end 2012. Ultimately, we believe our approach creates a virtuous cycle, with productivity
fueling the reinvestment and transformation necessary for sustainable top and bottom line growth and shareholder value
creation.
With this, let me turn the call over to Hugh Johnston. Hugh?
Hugh F. Johnston
Thank you, Indra, and good morning everyone. First, let's discuss guidance. As Indra mentioned, based on the strength
of our year-to-date performance and our outlook for the remainder of the year, we've increased our full-year core
constant currency EPS growth target to 9% from 8% previously, which includes the expected fourth quarter impact of
the Venezuela accounting change. Additional details regarding the change in accounting for Venezuela can be found in
our third quarter earnings release and in the soon to be released 10-Q. Our other targets remain unchanged.
For the full year 2015, we continue to expect mid-single-digit organic revenue growth, core operating margin
expansion as organic top line growth and productivity should offset negative geographic mix and commodity inflation,
which incorporates the impact of transaction-related foreign exchange headwinds, and approximately $1 billion in
productivity savings.
Below the division operating line, we continue to expect corporate costs to be lower, a core tax rate of approximately
25% and a reduced share count. We now expect foreign exchange translation to negatively impact net revenue and core
earnings per share growth by approximately 10 percentage points and 11 percentage points respectively based on
current market consensus rates. Taking our 2014 core EPS of $4.63 and applying our guidance and current market
consensus of foreign exchange impact implies 2015 core EPS of approximately $4.54.
As you model out the fourth quarter, I'd ask you to consider the following. First, we expect foreign exchange
translation to have an approximate 8 point unfavorable impact on fourth quarter net revenue growth and an
approximate 8 point unfavorable impact on fourth quarter core EPS growth based on current market consensus rates.
Venezuelan operations contributed $0.03 to core EPS in the prior year quarter.
Second, the North American Beverages business will face a difficult core constant currency operating profit growth
comparison. Below the division operating profit line, net interest expense is expected to increase in the fourth quarter
versus last year driven by higher interest rate and higher debt balances. From a cash flow perspective, we continue to
expect full year free cash flow, excluding certain items, of more than $7 billion. We expect our capital allocation
discipline to continue to drive core ROIC improvement. This is building on the steady progress we've made in ROIC
with core net ROIC up 380 basis points from 2012 to 19.1% through the third quarter of 2015 on a rolling four-quarter
basis.
Company Name: PepsiCo
Company Ticker: PEP US
Date: 2015-10-06
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 11
We expect shareholder cash returns to be very strong. We now expect to return approximately $9 billion to
shareholders in 2015; approximately $4 billion in dividends and $5 billion in share repurchases. Our current share
repurchase outlook is at the high end of the range we provided last quarter. Our annualized dividend is now $2.81, an
approximate 60% payout ratio based on 2014 core EPS. This represents the 43rd consecutive year of annual dividend
increases and our annualized dividends per share have grown at a 10% compound annual rate over the past 10 years.
So to summarize, our core constant currency earnings per share outlook for 2015 is improved from our last call and free
cash flow, disciplined capital allocation and returning cash to our shareholders remain top priorities for the company.
With that, operator, we'll take the first question.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of John Faucher of JPMorgan.
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: Good morning, John.
<Q - John A. Faucher>: Thanks. Good morning, Indra. You talked about some of the markets that are doing well and
I think where the Street is really concerned here is in terms of some of the markets where – Russia, Brazil – where we
think there is potentially a little more macro impact. And given the fact that you guys are about four weeks into the
quarter, can you talk about whether or not you've seen some of these macro shifts have an impact on the consumer?
And how should we think about those markets going forward?
And then a quick question for Hugh, which is, if we look at this, it seems as though if Venezuela is about 3% this year
on a run rate basis of earnings, you're covering about 50 basis points in Q4. So should we think about the balance
coming out through the first three quarters of next year? Thanks.
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: John, global macros are volatile, as I mentioned in my prepared comments. And whenever
there is volatility in the marketplace, the consumer behavior does reflect some of this volatility. The good news is that
we're not luxury items or high ticket items. We are basic food and beverage items. We see a slowdown but not
significant. Having said that, I think the most important thing is we have a portfolio that we can play between
developed and developing and emerging markets and, somehow, we balance the portfolio to deliver the results. But the
macro volatility is here to stay.
<A - Hugh F. Johnston>: Okay. And then, John, to answer your question regarding Venezuela, as you mentioned, it's
worth $0.03 that we are lapping right now going into the fourth quarter. And we are covering that as a part of our 9%
guidance. For 2016, we will get to guidance in February. We won't discuss that on this call. What I will share with
investors is, in 2015, Venezuela is worth about $0.10. So that's what we'll be lapping as we get into 2016 but rather
than get into one-off guidance in 2016, we'll provide comprehensive guidance on the February call.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley.
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: Good morning, Dara.
<Q - Dara W. Mohsenian>: Good morning. How are you?
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: Very well. Thank you.
<Q - Dara W. Mohsenian>: So, first, just a detail question for Hugh. Do you guys have an extra week in 2016? And if
you do, how much will that add to EPS? And then, the real question, I was hoping for an update on the potato chip
revenue management program at FLNA. How's it trending so far versus expectations? How's it being received by
Company Name: PepsiCo
Company Ticker: PEP US
Date: 2015-10-06
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 11
consumers and your retail partners? And going forward from here, should we expect volume growth to improve
sequentially? Or will it really take another couple quarters before we cycle the program to see sustained volume
improvement? Thanks.
<A - Hugh F. Johnston>: Yeah. So, Dara, on the 53rd week, the answer is yes. We do have a 53rd week every fifth or
sixth year, depending on how the days fall. And 2016 will be a 53-week year. As I mentioned on John's question as
well, in terms of guidance and impact on that, we'll get to that on the February call. It's not time to handle that right
now.
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: And on the PC revenue management, Dara, we're beginning to see all of the work we did on
that revenue management program beginning to take root. It's clearly helped the profitability because it's really
price-pack architecture to manage the SKUs on the shelf which are really getting much too complex. And we are
beginning to see the positive impact of all of the work we did over the last three quarters. Volume growth is beginning
to come back, and clearly profitability has been helped by the whole revenue management program.
<A - Hugh F. Johnston>: In addition to that, Dara, one of the goals of the program was to increase the number of
households that are buying Lays by virtue of recognizing the smaller households in the United States, and in fact that
impact is happening. So we feel good about the strategy as well as the revenue management implications.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
<Q - Bryan D. Spillane>: Hey. Good morning, everyone.
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: Good morning, Bryan.
<Q - Bryan D. Spillane>: I guess just two questions related to comments on productivity. I think first, if I look at
constant currency operating profit growth, it's about $700 million of profit this year. Could you just give us some
context in terms of how much of that profit growth has come from productivity dropping? How much of it is just the
natural leverage in the business, and maybe some context in terms of rate of reinvestment this year?
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: Go ahead, Hugh.
<A - Hugh F. Johnston>: Bryan, as always, this is a challenging question to answer because in a company with
PepsiCo's complexity both geographically and from a channel and product perspective, isolating one of the variables is
a little bit tricky. What I would say is this. The combination of the higher productivity, in addition to the benefits that
we are relatively getting on commodities and then comparing that to the natural rate of inflation for PepsiCo's portfolio
of 4%, and comparing that to the level of fixed cost leverage we get through the P&L, 60 basis points for the quarter we
think is a good number for the year. We've been delivering good leverage. And the balancing act of how much are we
reinvesting back in R&D and reinvesting back in A&M, again, it's a bit difficult to isolate the variables. Suffice to say
we are investing meaningful amounts in R&D and A&M in order to drive the top line growth that you're seeing.
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: And we have tools and technologies as we get more digital tools that are disrupting many parts
of our business.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy of CLSA.
<Q - Caroline S. Levy>: Thanks so much, good morning. I wonder if you could just take us through the U.S. beverage
environment in a little bit more detail, talking about how carbonated soft drinks are doing, particularly diet versus
specifics on – you mentioned how strong tea is, and how that shift in categories affect margins going forward.
Company Name: PepsiCo
Company Ticker: PEP US
Date: 2015-10-06
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 11
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: First of all, good morning, Caroline. The U.S. beverage environment is pretty good actually.
There is good portfolio management happening in the industry, and I'd say that the CSD market continues to be under
pressure from a volume perspective. From a value perspective because of good revenue management and good pricing
in the industry, the value numbers are way better than the volume numbers. But clearly the big story here is non-carbs,
and the non-carbs are really what's driving all of the growth in the whole industry. And again, in non-carbs,
profitability varies. It ranges all the way from bottled water to other products that have higher profitability.
So I think the challenge at every point in the North American Beverage business is really twofold, if you want to think
about it. How do you play the game across the portfolio between CSDs and non-carbs? And within CSDs, how do you
alternate between a Mountain Dew versus a Pepsi versus a Kickstart? So that's one balancing game that we have to go
through. But the second part is also channel-wise. How much emphasis do you place on single-serve and driving
single-serve sales which have got a different profit profile than large pack or multi-serve products? So the challenge in
this industry, it's a very complex, very big industry. It's how do you play this whole game intelligently.
Now, I will tell you one thing. The fact that we own the bulk of our bottling system and the fact that most of our
bottlers are very aligned, we have a very good set of bottling partners, actually allows us to be a lot more nimble and
effective in the market the right pricing strategies, revenue management strategies, and get the right innovation into the
marketplace.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
<Q - Judy E. Hong>: Thank you. Good morning, everyone.
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: Good morning, Judy.
<Q - Judy E. Hong>: So, Indra, you talked about the focus on increasing the promotional spending effectiveness as
part of the productivity initiatives. I was hoping to get a little bit more color just in terms of where do you think
PepsiCo is in the context of what the industry is doing. We've been hearing these trade spend effectiveness programs
for a while. So how is it different this time? Is it more evolutionary versus revolutionary, and then some of the
categories that you think are right for this to continue within your portfolio?
And then, Hugh, just to follow up on Venezuela, so it seems like Venezuela probably added about one to two points to
revenue growth. So can you just clarify or quantify the revenue impact? And then in the fourth quarter, as you
deconsolidate Venezuela, how much of the organic revenue growth is at risk in terms of taking that out of your P&L?
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: Judy, again, I don't want to get into too much detail because now you're asking us to get into
what really drives PepsiCo. But I'll just roughly tell you that you have to look at trade spending management and
revenue management together because in a way, the two of them are how we manage the shelf. And as the digital tools
get better and better and more tools are available to get more visibility into consumer interaction with different
packages, the way we do revenue management improves. So if you look at Frito-Lay's recent program on Project Drive,
that was a trade spending and revenue management program because in a way, the way we manage the packaging there
improves the profitability of the retailers in addition to improving the whole spending effectiveness.
So I think the pace at which we move in this area is a function of the tools available for us to have more visibility into
consumer buying decisions and how we do shelf assortment. It's a journey. We are investing more and more in tools,
training, capabilities and we're making sure everybody gets trained in these tools, developing market tools, emerging
market tools, developed market tools, what we do with modern trade, what we do with traditional trade. We're rolling
out the training. It's a journey, Judy, and it's going to take a few years before we're fully done. But as these tools roll
out, we start to see the benefits roll into the P&L. And that's what you saw in Frito-Lay. The Project Drive was a great
example of it. And even the North American Beverage profitability, in a way, is a function of how they're intelligently
managing both the product portfolio and trade spending. So with that, let me turn to Hugh to talk about your second
question, Venezuela.
Company Name: PepsiCo
Company Ticker: PEP US
Date: 2015-10-06
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 11
<A - Hugh F. Johnston>: Venezuela, Judy, in terms of year to date, Venezuela is worth about two points in our
numbers. And in terms of going forward into the fourth quarter, when we talk about organic revenue growth, we are
treating the deconsolidation as a structural change, so we will basically talk organic ex-Venezuela.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer of Cowen & Company.
<Q - Vivien Azer>: Hi, good morning.
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: Good morning, Vivien.
<Q - Vivien Azer>: My question has to do with your European segment and specifically your beverage volumes. I
recognize that you're lapping a slightly easier compare but it does look like your volumes reflected nicely, so I was
hoping you could offer some color on the drivers of that. Thank you.
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: We have a largely zero-calorie portfolio in Europe and parts of the country – parts of the region
did well. And there were parts where – places like Russia, we focused more on value than we did on volume, because
in those markets, you've got extraordinary inflation and you've got to make sure you price through to get the value up.
In France, Germany, Turkey, we had very good beverage strength. And in countries like Russia, because of inflation,
the market was tough. But overall, again, I come back to this notion of the portfolio management. In today's volatile
environment, the biggest capability we, as a company, have to develop and we have is how we manage the portfolio
intelligently to deliver a set of numbers for the company overall, and again, managing the company for value share
within a volume corridor, and that's what we've been doing globally at this point.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj of Bernstein.
<Q - Ali Dibadj>: Hey, guys.
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: Good morning, Ali.
<Q - Ali Dibadj>: Hi. So, I have two basic questions for you. One is when you look at your organic sales numbers,
there seems to be two things that are a little unexpected or weird. One is I'll say that 33% Latin America pricing
number, and the second is the strong 3% volumes in NAB. So on the former, can you just give us a little bit more detail
of where that come from? Was that really all Venezuela? How much was Argentina? And when you deconsolidate
Venezuela, what does that pricing specifically number look like in Venezuela? Is it in there? On the NAB, good
volume numbers, it sounds like a lot of that was stills. Can you give us a breakdown of volume growth between stills
and CSD? So that's question one.
The second question is...
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: Hang on, hang on. Let's get the question one answered. Go ahead.
<A - Hugh F. Johnston>: Yeah, it's – Ali, two things on that. Ex-Venezuela, Latin America was up 9% and number
two, regarding your question on breakdown on volumes, the 3% of overall volume growth, CSDs were down 1.9%,
non-carbs, or stills, as you call them, were up almost 10%. And then within CSDs, regulars were down 1% and diets
were down 6.5%.
<Q - Ali Dibadj>: Okay. So super helpful on that one. In terms of the second question, I'd love to hear how you, guys,
are thinking about the potential implications of ABI/SAB to the PepsiCo business. So PepsiCo, obviously including the
Brazil bottling, what might happen there? How are you guys thinking about that in terms of your joint purchasing with
ABI, this is no longer, kind of, rumor or speculation, so you guys have clearly done as you usually do, good analytics,
Company Name: PepsiCo
Company Ticker: PEP US
Date: 2015-10-06
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 11
good math on thinking through the implications here for you guys.
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: Ali, great question, but we don't comment or speculate on these matters as they relate to
specific bottlers, customers and suppliers.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz of Deutsche Bank.
<Q - Bill Schmitz>: Hi. Good morning.
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: Good morning, Bill.
<Q - Bill Schmitz>: A couple of questions on the U.S. just to drill a little deeper on some previous questions. So do
you still think the U.S. bottling assets are strategic long-term assets? And how far are you from having them fully
optimized?
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: Bill, as I mentioned earlier on my comments regarding North American Beverages, today more
than ever with the portfolio shifting to non-carbs, innovation is becoming more fragmented and the lifecycle of
innovation is being shortened and the trade becoming more and more complex, having control of the manufacturing
and distribution system becomes critical. And when we have independent bottlers, having them aligned is even more
critical. And I'll tell you, based on our recent North American Bottling Meeting, Al Carey and the team did a brilliant
job and the system is more aligned than I've ever seen before. So I think these bottling assets are strategic.
And as I said earlier, this is a journey. As the marketplace evolves, we have to keep evolving and optimizing our
bottling assets. We've done a lot with the manufacturing assets. As we mentioned, we've taken out 23% of the capacity.
Utilization is up. We are looking at consolidating large format and small format routes and reducing the number of
routes by 15%. As the equivalent of GES, or Geo Box as our beverage guys call it, get implemented, we too will start
thinking about different ways to leverage that distribution system, so it's a journey. And it's a very, very good team and
they're doing the right things to focus on revenue management, trade spending effectiveness, marketing, innovation,
laying the portfolio, intelligent pricing. So I think we are in a good place in North American Beverages.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Grundy of Jefferies.
<Q - Kevin Grundy>: Hey, good morning.
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: Good morning, Kevin.
<Q - Kevin Grundy>: Indra, so my question to come back to North American Beverages, specifically carbonated soft
drinks, so profit growth in NAB has been outstanding this year. From a market share perspective, Indra, you've often
spoken in the past about managing that market share within a corridor. And as I look at the Nielsen data, it looks like
you guys have been losing share within CSDs, not just on a four-week, 12-week, but over the past year. And I'm just
curious, number one, if you're comfortable with the share position now or if at some point more investment is needed
here, whether that's innovation, whether this is trade spend, et cetera. Any comments there with respect to your
carbonated soft drink trends here would be helpful. Thank you.
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: We are happy with where we are right now. And the portfolio is working, Kevin, and that's the
most important thing. When the marketplace starts shifting more towards non-carbs, we've got to make sure that we
step up our investment in non-carbs, our innovation in non-carbs, which is really what we've been doing.
And in case of CSDs, there has been a small share loss. But if you look across the portfolio, Mountain Dew is doing
exceedingly well. We're doing very well in small format. And as I said earlier to the question I think that Judy or
Company Name: PepsiCo
Company Ticker: PEP US
Date: 2015-10-06
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 11
somebody asked, we have really been working the portfolio to make sure that channel management, price/pack
management, trade management, innovation management, and overall portfolio management work to deliver overall
LRB share increase. That's really what we are focused on. I think focusing just on CSDs is actually a thing of the past.
And I would strongly suggest everybody looks at total LRB because that's the right way to look at the market going
forward.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Marshall of Barclays.
<Q - William Marshall>: Good morning.
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: Hi, Bill.
<Q - William Marshall>: Thank you. Now your last comment notwithstanding, I do have a question on carbonated
soft drinks. Just from a qualitative perspective, obviously you've made the switch to aspartame-free on Diet Pepsi. So
I'm just curious what the consumer reaction has been to the move. And then broadening that out into other sweetener
technology, and you've used stevia in some cases, just where we should look at how this is developing and how the
consumer is reacting to these new products? Thank you.
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: Bill, it's too early to tell you exactly how the consumer is reacting because our belief is that
you've got to wait a few cycles to see what the purchase repeat adoption cycle is. At the end of Q4, when we go into
next year, we might be able to give you some more information. But at this point, it's way too early to talk about how
aspartame-free is performing in the marketplace.
In terms of new sweeteners, all the information is out there in the marketplace. We've been talking about it. I don't see a
zero-calorie naturally sweetened CSD on the horizon in the next few years. But if you want to talk about lower-calorie
naturally sweetened beverages, I think a combination of sweeteners, tools, techniques, we have probably the best
portfolio of development tools to enable that to happen. It may not always be in CSDs but it would be – part of it in
non-carbs, part in CSDs, and you'll start seeing these innovations roll out as we speak. We've rolled out a couple
products this year in Manzanita Sol and Mug with some of these tools. You'll start seeing more of that as next year rolls
by.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Powers of UBS.
<Q - Stephen R. Powers>: Thanks, good morning.
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: Good morning.
<Q - Stephen R. Powers>: So Frito-Lay volumes were a bit better, and I think some investors fear they might be just
based on some of the scanner data trends. So is there any light you can shine on that related to sell-in versus sell-out
timing or strength outside of the tracked channels, for example, in foodservice? That's my first question.
And then, Indra, longer term, picking up on your commentary surrounding productivity, as you look forward over the
next four years of your current program, how do you see that balance between efficiency and effectiveness contributing
for the next $4 billion? Is it split? Is it skewed one way or another? And then within the efficiency bucket, do the
drivers remain supply chain restructuring and Smart Spending, or are there other initiatives on the horizon that we
should be thinking about? Thanks.
<A - Indra K. Nooyi>: In fact, I'm going to take the productivity question, and I'm going to have Hugh talk about the
Frito-Lay volume issue. I think on productivity, going forward the next four years, again year by year it varies. As with
all these programs, you can measure the efficiency programs more directly on productivity. And the effectiveness, you
Company Name: PepsiCo
Company Ticker: PEP US
Date: 2015-10-06
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 11
see it more on the top line and you see it in pricing because how you get the pricing is a function of how we implement
all of these effectiveness programs. It's much harder to isolate the effectiveness part of productivity, but I will tell you
the way we measure it is in top line growth and the kind of pricing we get, so that's where it should manifest itself. And
our algorithm is – talking about mid-single-digit revenue growth. And given today's extremely turbulent environment, I
think effectiveness-oriented productivity programs is what's going to allow us to deliver that mid-single-digit growth.
Let's talk about Frito-Lay volumes, Hugh, if you want to take that one.
<A - Hugh F. Johnston>: Yes, Steve. Happy to. Absolutely, we did see volumes at Frito-Lay a little bit stronger than I
think what analysts were generally expecting and what they were interpolating based off of the scan data. I think the
reason for that is convenience stores were particularly strong in Frito-Lay. We saw volume growth in c-stores for the
quarter of 4.5% and that channel tends to be track a little bit less closely. It's about 20% of Fritos business, so I think
that probably accounts for the data difference.
More broadly, I think the important point here is Project Drive, which is obviously suppressed volumes to some degree,
is going on very successful. As Indra mentioned earlier from a revenue management perspective, it's yielding the
results we expected and in addition to that and strategically, more importantly, the household penetration on Lays is
going up, and frankly, that was the goal of Project Drive and it is working for it quite successfully. Obviously we've got
a couple more quarters of overlaps to work through in terms of volume impacts but we feel very, very good about
Project Drive right now.
Indra K. Nooyi
So with that, thank you all for your questions. In closing, let me reiterate that we are pleased with our year-to-date
results. We are confident that our plans are working and that we will deliver on financial targets for 2015. I want to
thank you all for your time and questions this morning, and more importantly, for the confidence you've placed in us.
Have a great day.
Operator
Thank you. That does conclude PepsiCo's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. You may now disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.