Company Name: Honeywell
Company Ticker: HON US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 17
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Mark Macaluso
• David M. Cote
• Thomas A. Szlosek
Other Participants
• Scott Reed Davis
• Jeffrey T. Sprague
• Joseph A. Ritchie
• Howard Alan Rubel
• Andrew Obin
• Gautam Khanna
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Honeywell's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At this
time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode, and the floor will be open for your questions following the
presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Mark Macaluso, Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mark Macaluso
Thanks, Heather. Good morning, and welcome to Honeywell's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. With me
here today are: Chairman and CEO, Dave Cote; and Senior Vice President and CFO, Tom Szlosek. As a reminder, this
call and webcast, including any non-GAAP reconciliations, are available on our website at
www.honeywell.com/investor.
Note that elements of this presentation contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world
and of our businesses as we see them the today. Those elements can change, and we ask that you interpret them in that
light. We identify the principal risks and uncertainties that affect our performance on our Form 10-K and other SEC
filings.
This morning, we'll review our financial results for the third quarter, share with you our guidance for the fourth quarter,
and as well, provide initial framework for 2016. Finally, as always, we'll leave time for your questions at the end.
And with that, I will turn the call over to Chairman and CEO, Dave Cote.
David M. Cote
Morning, everyone. As I'm sure you've seen by now, Honeywell delivered another quarter of double-digit earnings
growth, highlighted by our strong execution across the portfolio. Reported EPS of $1.60 increased 10%, normalized for
Company Name: Honeywell
Company Ticker: HON US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 17
tax, reaching the high end of our guidance range for the quarter. Sales of $9.6 billion were up 1% on a core organic
basis. We saw continued growth in our business jet engines and repair and overhaul activities in Aerospace; and our
short cycle residential, commercial, and industrial products businesses in ACS. In PMT, demand for UOP catalysts and
Solstice applications continued. We generated free cash flow of $1.4 billion in the third quarter, with free cash flow
conversion coming in above 100%, and we expect that to continue in the fourth quarter.
While we always like more, our top line growth was respectable in this softening macro environment, and our relentless
focus on execution once again resulted in outstanding margin expansion and cash conversion, while continuing to do
the seed planting for a bright future. Our segment margin expanded 190 basis points to 19.3%. Each of our three
segments delivered margin expansion above the guidance we communicated in July. HOS Gold and our key process
initiatives continue to drive productivity benefits, and our previously funded restructuring actions will help us to
continue improving our operations. We've proactively funded over $60 million of new restructuring in the quarter
building on a healthy pipeline of new projects, and we intend on keeping that pipeline full to support strong margin
expansion next year and beyond.
There continues to be a lot of exciting developments across the portfolio, so let me tell you about a couple of them. We
announced the acquisition of Elster on July 28 for $5 billion. Elster is a leading provider of thermal gas solutions for
commercial, industrial, and residential heating systems and gas, water, and electricity meters, including smart meters
and software data analytic solutions.
Infrastructure investments and increasing gas consumption in high-growth regions like India and China will continue to
drive demand for Elster's gas heating assets, strengthening our existing gas combustion portfolio to create a full
solution offering. Elster's metering portfolio consists of basic and smart meters which measure volumes consumed by
commercial, industrial, and residential users. The growth here will continue as the adoption of smart meters and data
analytics increases and as the legislative mandates in Europe, China, and other major regions take shape.
In addition, Elster has a complementary presence to process solutions in natural gas, transportation, and storage. A
large portion of natural gas reserves are found in remote regions, and as the long-term trends in natural gas remain
positive, the need to transport it from these geographies to the rest of the world continues to grow. That means more
pipelines, regulators, control valves, and metering systems; and with Elster, we'll be positioned well at each point of the
value chain.
Elster is expected to add $2 billion in sales at approximately 20% operating margin, building on our great positions in
good industries in ACS and PMT. We expect approximately 8% of sales as cost synergies and our deployment of HOS
Gold across the Elster enterprise will be the key to achieving the integration benefits. We're also confident that there
are significant sales synergy opportunities, particularly in high-growth regions like China, by leveraging our current
channels and infrastructure. We continue to expect the deal to close in the first quarter of 2016, and we're actively
planning the integration.
We continue to believe we can significantly enhance shareowner returns through M&A, as we've proven in the past
with acquisitions like UOP, Intermec, Thomas Russell, and EMS.
In August, Honeywell's partner, Inmarsat, successfully launched the third Global Xpress, or GX, satellite. The latest
launch completes the GX satellite constellation, which will ultimately provide passengers, air crews, and operators with
high-speed Internet connectivity anywhere in the world including on transoceanic flights. Aircraft connectivity is one
of the biggest technological revolutions happening within the commercial aviation sector, as the number of aircrafts
equipped with passenger connectivity systems is expected to double to more than 4,000 by 2016 and wireless in-flight
entertainment is expected to be on about a quarter of the global commercial fleet by 2018.
Honeywell is positioned to benefit from the growing demand in connectivity as the exclusive hardware provider for
Inmarsat's GX satellite constellation and the exclusive wireless airtime reseller for Inmarsat Global Xpress Ka-band
aircraft connectivity services for business aviation operators.
As airlines increasingly look at how they can utilize real-time connectivity for flight operational tasks like real-time
weather and database updates to the cockpit and proactive maintenance, and as passengers continue to request faster
Company Name: Honeywell
Company Ticker: HON US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 17
Wi-Fi connections in-flight, the need for Honeywell's JetWave high-speed satellite communications hardware will
continue. We currently have orders for over 300 JetWave systems in 2016 across our air transport and business aviation
customer base with additional awards expected soon.
In Transportation Systems, we unveiled our 2015 global turbocharger forecast at the annual Frankfurt International
Motor Show. We now estimate that by 2020, roughly half of all cars on the road will have turbocharged engines, up
from one-third of all passenger vehicles today. In addition, global market demand will drive an increased desire for
turbo technology innovations that enhance a vehicle's overall powertrain system, reduce complexity and are tailored to
local market needs. In this period of accelerating turbo penetration, Honeywell is well-positioned to meet the changing
demands of our customers and we expect to continue growing faster than the industry due to our differentiated
technology, global footprint, and the Honeywell Operating System.
With just over two months left in the year, we're confident in our ability to deliver on the earnings guidance we set for
2015 last December despite the slower growth environment in the global economy since then. We are confirming our
full-year 2015 earnings guidance at approximately $6.10 per share, representing growth of 10% versus 2014, which
would be our 6th consecutive year of double-digit earnings growth. We'll continue to be flexible and plan
conservatively as we move into 2016. Tom will preview our initial planning framework for next year, and as you'll see,
there are bright spots in what will be a slow growth environment.
We've demonstrated that we can execute well, particularly in a tough macro environment, a big reminder of the value
of our diversified and balanced portfolio and the strength of the Honeywell process initiatives. Segment margins are
expanding while, at the same time, we are continuing seed planting in high-growth regions, high ROI CapEx, process
improvements, and new products and technologies. The restructuring we funded will provide runway for future margin
expansion throughout our five-year plan. We're excited about the year ahead and look forward to discussing our plan
with you in December.
So with that, I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thomas A. Szlosek
Thanks, Dave, and good morning. I'm on slide five (sic) [four] which shows the third quarter results. Sales of $9.6
billion were up 1% on a core organic basis as we're able to overcome a sluggish macro environment. Growth was
particularly noteworthy in BGA OE where engine shipments were strong, in our ACS short cycle products businesses
across residential, commercial, and industrial end markets, in UOP catalysts, and in our Solstice suite of refrigerants.
The growth in these areas helped us to mitigate the ongoing challenges we have discussed in the oil and gas,
commercial vehicle, and energy retrofit markets, which we serve.
On a reported basis, the sales decline this quarter was again driven by foreign currency and lower pass-through pricing
in Resins & Chemicals. Segment profit increased 5% with segment margin expansion expanding 190 basis points to
19.3%. As Dave mentioned, all three of our segments came in above the high end of the guidance we issued back in
July. We continue to benefit from HOS Gold, our focus on commercial excellence, new product development,
functional transformation, and strong cost controls across the portfolio while maintaining our investments for growth;
so, really nice work across each of the businesses in a relatively tough environment.
Similar to the prior quarter, items below segment profit were favorable on a year-over-year basis, as we had
anticipated. Higher pension income was offset by additional restructuring. As Dave said, we funded over $60 million of
new restructuring projects this quarter, building on our $300 million plus pipeline as of the end of the third quarter
which positions us well for continued margin expansion throughout the five-year plan.
On share count, in addition to our normal repurchasing to offset current dilution, we accelerated our repurchase activity
in the third quarter given the market downturn in the late summer. These actions will enable us to offset the expected
dilution in the next few quarters and brought our weighted average fully diluted share count to approximately 790
million shares for the quarter. We expect the count to be approximately 781 million shares in the fourth quarter as the
Company Name: Honeywell
Company Ticker: HON US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 17
full impact of this repurchasing activity kicks in.
Reported earnings per share of $1.60 was up 10%, normalized to our expected full-year tax rate of 26.5% in both
periods, again coming in at the high-end of our EPS guidance range and marking another quarter of double-digit
earnings growth. Finally, free cash flow was strong in the quarter at $1.4 billion, up 43% versus 2014, with conversion
of 110%, largely driven by improvement in net income and working capital. We anticipate free cash flow and
conversion to continue above 100% in the fourth quarter. So, overall, another quarter of strong earnings growth. We're
confident in achieving our EPS guidance for the year.
Let me move on to slide five. You'll recognize this format we use to explain the components of our robust margin
expansion in the quarter. The majority of the expansion is coming from our operating initiatives which, as you can see,
generated 140 basis points of the 190-basis-point margin improvement. HOS Gold is the overall driver.
New product introductions and commercial excellence continued to drive volume growth despite the slow growth
environment. Each segment is generating significant productivity, and we're continuing to see that improve our gross
margin rates. Our supply chains are becoming more lean and there is strong collaboration across the organization to
drive down our material costs and indirect spend. We're also seeing savings from previously funded restructuring
actions.
Moving over on the slide, the Friction Materials divestiture, our foreign currency hedging approach, and lower raw
materials pass-through pricing in R&C also enhanced margins collectively to the tune of about 50 basis points. We sold
Friction Materials in July of 2014, so we've largely lapped this benefit. However, it is a permanent improvement to our
margin rate, reflecting our continued approach to capital allocation.
On foreign currency, our hedging strategy protects our operating results, even if sales fluctuate with changes in
currency; so there is a lift in margin through year-end. And finally, as we've discussed, our pricing model in Resins &
Chemicals protects profit dollars in a period of lower selling prices, thereby increasing the margin rate. So, another
solid quarter of margin improvement driven by our operating system and key process initiatives. We expect to see
similar outperformance in the fourth quarter as we'll explain shortly.
Moving to slide six and the Aerospace results, sales for the third quarter were up 2% on a core organic basis, driven by
continued growth in BGA OE engine shipments, commercial aftermarket, and light vehicle gas volumes, offset by
lower commercial vehicle production and transportation systems. Segment margin expansion continued to be strong at
150 basis points and we exceeded the high-end of the guidance in the quarter. Commercial OE was up 4% on a core
organic basis, driven by a double-digit increase in BGA engine shipments as sales were up across all of the large
business jet platforms on which we participate.
Deliveries of our HTF engines continued to grow and we expect engine demand to be robust into the fourth quarter.
Similar to last quarter, air transport OE sales were flat as planned, while regional sales declined due to intentional
delays on shipments to certain emerging market customers. Commercial aircraft sales were up 3% on an organic basis,
driven by continued strong growth in repair and overhaul activities, partially offset by lower spare sales. R&O sales
were up high single-digit in quarter and have an improved sequentially throughout 2015.
We saw strong growth globally in ATR R&O particularly in Europe and APAC, while our BGA R&O business
continues to perform well in key North American market. On the spare side, RMUs, or retrofit modifications and
upgrades, have continued to moderate as we had planned. In ATR, spare sales was lower than expected, approximately
flat in the quarter, driven primarily by lower than expected demand in certain high-growth regions, principally China.
Looking ahead, we expect that our SATCOM and other RMUs will offset some of this spare softness.
Defense & Space sales were up 2% on a core organic basis, driven by double-digit growth in our international defense
business. Demand from our Middle East and Asia-Pacific customers was strong, while in the U.S. our sales were
slightly down. Finally, Transportation Systems sales increased 1% on a core organic basis through new platform
launches and continued volume growth in light vehicle applications. Sales growth overall was lower than expected due
to lower commercial vehicle volumes, particularly in North America and China. We expect that commercial vehicle
volumes will improve sequentially in the fourth quarter. On a reported basis, TS sales declined 16%, reflecting foreign
Company Name: Honeywell
Company Ticker: HON US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 17
currency headwinds and the Friction Materials divestiture I talked about.
I want to take a minute to address some of the questions we received about the impact of the Volkswagen emissions
matter on turbo technology and on our Turbo business. I wanted to explain why this is far from a disaster for
Honeywell and in fact, it's still an organic growth story. First, while we value the relationship with VW as we do every
customer, our sales to VW represent less than 1% of total Honeywell sales. So, while significant, we're not dependent
on any one vehicle manufacturer globally.
Second, the benefits of diesel engines remain compelling. Diesel engines operate at higher levels of compression,
enabling them to achieve higher fuel efficiency and lower CO2 emissions than gasoline engines. In addition, diesel
delivers significantly higher torque, enabling better acceleration and growing greater towing capacity and payload in
trucks and light commercial vehicles. Third, the output for diesel supply continues to be robust as diesel will always be
one of the useful outputs from the oil refining process. So, as long as there's oil being refined, there will be an ample
supply of diesel.
And last, in the unlikely event there is a gradual shift away from diesel technology or from a particular OEM, we are
well-positioned on other existing OEM platforms and expect that we'll continue to win a significant share of new
platforms, particularly in gas, where we have an increasing position. On a year-to-date basis, our TS business has
grown 3% organically, and we expect that growth to continue into 2016, as global penetration of diesel and gas
turbocharger technology accelerates to roughly half of all vehicles on the road by 2020. Transportation Systems
continues to be a key element of the Honeywell growth story.
Aerospace margin expanded 150 basis points above the high end of our guidance range, driven by commercial
excellence, productivity net of inflation, and the favorable impacts from foreign currency hedges, and the Friction
Materials divestiture, partially offset by the margin impact of higher OE shipments and continued investments for
growth. These include flight testing of our new connectivity offerings on the Boeing 757 test aircraft, which some you
may have seen in Paris, and new product introductions across our mechanical and electrical portfolio to ensure we
continue to win on the right platforms.
Let's turn to the ACS results on slide seven. In ACS, Alex and his team continued to advance our Connected ACS
initiative. ACS has realigned four of its businesses into two strategic business units, namely Honeywell Security and
Fire, or HSF; and Sensing and Productivity Solutions, or SP&S (sic) [S&PS], which encompasses the legacy Sensing &
Control and Scanning & Mobility portfolios. The broader scope of these businesses will provide us better scale in our
high-growth regions and differentiated connectivity solutions and will position us to better capitalize on growth
opportunities across residential, commercial, and industrial markets. You will hear us reference these businesses
throughout the rest of the presentation.
ACS sales were up 3% on a core organic basis in the third quarter, as we experienced continued growth in our short
cycle products businesses. ACS continues to outperform in China, up 10% in the quarter, driven by our Connected
ACS China business and continued investments for growth. The ACS margin expansion was again very strong at 130
basis points, and we exceeded the high end of our margin guidance range this quarter.
Energy, Safety & Security sales were up 4% on a core organic basis in the third quarter, driven by strong performance
in our Security and Fire and Sensing and Productivity Solutions businesses. S&PS delivered another quarter of solid
double-digit core organic sales growth, driven by volume from program wins, most notably from the U.S. Postal
Service agreement along with new product introductions in China. The rest of ESS also continues to benefit from new
product introductions and further penetration in our high-growth regions. This was partially offset by volume declines
in our Industrial Safety business, due principally to oil and gas related discretionary cuts.
Building Solutions and distribution sales were up 1% on a core organic basis in the third quarter. We continue to see
strength in the Americas distribution business where sales growth has improved sequentially every quarter in 2015.
This was offset by a decline in Building Solutions, driven primarily by softness in the Project Installation and Energy
Retrofit businesses. In the Energy Retrofit business, we currently have been selected in competitive RFPs for
approximately $500 million of U.S. federal and municipal business, which will subsequently convert to orders and then
Company Name: Honeywell
Company Ticker: HON US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 17
to revenues.
The conversion of these RFP wins into orders has unfortunately taken a longer time than we've historically seen,
driving this pool of preorders to more than 2x prior year's levels. But as a precursor to future orders and backlog, this is
a positive sign. And on the federal side, in particular, with the Presidential Challenge requiring award by the end of
2016, we believe these preorders will start to convert to orders in the coming quarters. Overall in HBS, the backlog is
flat year-over-year, as growth in projects and services has been offset by this energy challenge. Also, conversion of
orders and backlog has been slower than anticipated, particularly in the Americas and EMEA.
ACS margins expanded 130 basis points to 17.2% in the quarter. The business continues to benefit from good
conversion on higher volumes and significant productivity improvements, net of inflation. At the same time, we
continue to make strategic investments in new product development, connected product offerings, and in our
high-growth regions which, as we've noted, drove double-digit growth and continued order momentum, particularly in
China. We expect further margin expansion in 2016 and beyond as the team integrates and builds out the Connected
ACS initiative we described at our Investor Day.
I am now on slide eight to discuss PMT results. PMT sales were down 3% on a core organic basis in what continues to
be a challenging market environment for oil and gas. Darius and the PMT team have been resilient and unrelenting in
their focus to overcome these headwinds. We exceeded the high-end of our segment margin guidance by 80 basis
points driven by strong execution and continued productivity actions while maintaining our investments for growth.
UOP sales were down 15% on a core organic basis driven by lower gas processing, licensing, and equipment sales,
partially offset by robust catalyst demand, as we had planned. Catalyst shipments for the new olefin units accelerated in
the quarter while catalyst orders were strong, which we expect will drive substantial catalyst sales growth in the fourth
quarter. The higher catalyst sales benefited PMT margins in the quarter as well.
In gas processing, we are seeing some signs of life coming out of a quiet first half. We signed orders for two new
Russell modular units and expect the orders to further build into the fourth quarter, driven by international
opportunities. In Process Solutions, core organic sales were down 5% driven by double-digit declines in our short-cycle
field products business and weakness in long-cycle projects, partially offset by higher sales in our service contract
business. The HPS projects and services backlogs remain solid, up over 15% on a combined basis.
In services we saw an increase in demand for our Assurance 360 service partnership offering, which is a multi-year
agreement to maintain, support, and optimize performance of Honeywell control systems. Organic orders were down
6% in the quarter and we expect similar challenges for the rest of the year in HPS as customers delay capital spending
decisions and cut discretionary spend.
Some of the spending cuts reflect a hesitancy in our install base to remove high capacity and highly profitable plants
from operation, even for short maintenance periods. This deferred maintenance will eventually require addressing,
which will benefit our HPS service business and for that matter our UOP catalyst business.
Advanced Materials sales were up 8% on a core organic basis driven by Fluorine Products, which grew double-digit for
the 5th straight quarter as demand for Solstice low global warming products continues to ramp. In addition, Specialty
Products continue to benefit from investments in new products. On a reported basis, Advanced Materials sales declined
8%, primarily due to the impact of the lower pass-through pricing in Resins & Chemicals, as we've highlighted
previously.
PMT segment margins were up 330 basis points to 20.8%, which again exceeded our guidance driven by significant
productivity actions net of inflation, commercial excellence, and the favorable impact of raw materials pass-through
pricing in Resins & Chemicals. PMT initiated cost management actions late in 2014 to address the challenges we
anticipated in the oil and gas environment and have been very focused on reducing direct material and indirect cost.
This was partially offset by continued investments for growth in capacity expansion and R&D to develop
groundbreaking new products like Solstice. We've also benefited from ongoing restructuring and reducing our fixed
cost structure, which should help us sustain the strong margin expansion we've seen year-to-date.
Company Name: Honeywell
Company Ticker: HON US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 17
I'm now on slide nine with a preview of the fourth quarter. Before I get into the preview, I want to spend a moment
reminding everyone of the gain from the sale of the B/E Aerospace shares and OEM incentives from the fourth quarter
2014. We sold the remaining 1.9 million of BEAV shares in the fourth quarter of last year and separately incurred a
charge of $184 million for commercial OEM incentives in Aerospace. On an after-tax basis, there was no impact to
EPS for the quarter or full year from these two transactions. The cost for these OEM incentives was included in the
Aerospace segment as a reduction of revenue while the gain from the sale of BEAV shares is below the line and not
included in the Aerospace segment, so the 2014 reported sales and margins for Aero were comparably low.
Moving to the fourth quarter 2015, we're expecting another quarter of double-digit earnings growth to cap off the year.
EPS, excluding pension mark-to-market adjustment, is expected to be approximately $1.58, up 10% year-over-year.
Total Honeywell sales are expected to be $10 billion to $10.2 billion, or up 1% to 2% on a core organic basis. Segment
margins are expected to be up approximately 120 basis points to 140 basis points excluding the impact of $184 million
fourth quarter OEM incentives in 2014.
We expect our margins will continue to improve on operational excellence, similar to what we've seen throughout the
year. We're still planning a full-year tax rate in 2015 of 26.5%, inclusive of the fourth quarter tax rate of approximately
27.5%. As I mentioned earlier, we expect the share count to be approximately 781 million shares in the quarter on a
weighted average and fully diluted basis. We intend to be opportunistic based on market volatility and be ready to step
in again when we see good buying opportunities.
Aerospace sales are expected to be up 1% to 2% on a core organic basis. In commercial OE, we expect that core
organic sales will be up mid-single-digit, driven primarily by continued healthy engine demand in mid to large cabin
business aircraft. In commercial aftermarket, we expect core organic sales to be up low-single-digits with similar trends
to what we saw in the third quarter; that is strong repair and overhaul offset by spare softness.
Defense & Space sales are expected to be flat to slightly up on a core organic basis with continued modest declines in
the U.S. and slower growth in international business against a more difficult prior-year comparison. As a reminder,
Defense & Space international increased 17% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
In Transportation Systems, sales are expected to be up low-single-digit on a core organic basis, driven by both light
vehicle gas and diesel turbo volumes, partially offset by continued headwinds from lower commercial vehicle
production particularly in China, as we've discussed previously. Aerospace segment margins are expected to increase
40 basis points to 60 basis points excluding the fourth quarter 2014 incentives, and this is driven by commercial
excellence, further productivity improvements, and partially offset by the margin impact of higher OE shipments.
Moving on to ACS, sales are expected to be up 2% to 3% on a core organic basis with low-single-digit core organic
growth in both ESS and BSD. Growth in our residential and commercial businesses within ESS should be similar to
what we saw in the third quarter with good performance in Security and Fire in particular. On the industrial side, S&PS
growth will be slower with the completion of the U.S. Postal Service deployment, and we expect continued oil and gas
related headwinds in industrial safety.
In BSD, we expect continued growth in America's distribution to be partially offset by a slower conversion of orders
out of backlog in Building Solutions. ACS margins are expected to be up 70 basis points to 90 basis points, driven
primarily by commercial excellence, continued productivity net of inflation, and the benefits of prior-period
restructuring. We will continue the investments in new product development and in high-growth regions to support
further growth in the fourth quarter and into 2016.
PMT sales are expected to be down 2% to 3% on a core organic basis, reflecting the slowdown we've experienced.
We're expecting UOP to be up mid-single-digit on a core organic basis primarily due to strong double-digit
petrochemical and refining catalyst growth, partially offset by continued declines in our gas processing and process
technology and equipment businesses.
In HPS, we're expecting core organic sales to be down mid- to high-single-digit with declines each line of business. We
continue to see delays in discretionary spend across the portfolio and the conversion of orders into revenue has slowed.
However our win rate on mega automation projects is helping to mitigate these declines and drive a strong backlog.
Company Name: Honeywell
Company Ticker: HON US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 17
Year-to-date, we've won well over 50% of these mega competitions.
In Advanced Materials, we're expecting core organic sales to be down slightly, principally driven by timing in Fluorine
Products. PMT segment margins in the quarter are expected be up 300 basis points to 320 basis points, driven by strong
productivity net of inflation and the favorable margin impact of raw materials pass-through pricing in Resins &
Chemicals. While the fourth quarter will again be challenging for PMT, our disciplined cost management and
productivity initiatives give us confidence to deliver on our commitments.
Let me move to slide 10, where I'd like to review our full-year 2015 outlook. Our sales are now expected to be
approximately $38.7 billion, up approximately 2% core organic and down 4% reported versus the prior year. As for
segment margins, we're expecting the full year to be approximately 18.8%, up 220 basis points, or 180 basis points
excluding the fourth quarter OEM incentives from 2014. This puts us well above the high end of the margin rate
guidance we shared with you last December and on track to achieve our 2018 long-term targets.
There are some puts and takes among the segments since our last update, but we continue to have confidence in the
segment margins for each business, roughly 21% for both Aero and PMT and 16.5% for Aero (sic) [ACS]. Strong
performance across the portfolio. And as Dave mentioned earlier, we're confirming our full-year EPS guidance at
approximately $6.10, representing 10% growth.
While there's still growth – I'm sorry; while there's still work to do to ensure we deliver on our full-year results, we
have commenced our 2016 planning. On slide 11, I'd like to walk you through some of our key planning assumptions
and initial thoughts by business.
The table you see depicts our initial 2016 view by business compared to 2015. So just so I'm clear, neutral indicates a
similar growth rate in 2016 as 2015. Likewise, plus indicates a stronger growth rate in 2016 versus 2015. In Aerospace,
commercial OE growth will be in line with 2015. Our strong positions on successful platforms will drive continued
shipments of new engines to key OEMs, following double-digit BGA OE growth in 2015.
On the ATR side, we expect slightly better growth, as production of the Airbus A350 ramps. These and other new
platforms will continue to support growth in our ATR and BGA installed base and service business as we move
forward. Our aftermarket business will be slightly better in 2016 due to continued strength in airline repair and
overhaul activities and higher engine maintenance events in BGA, tracking in line with flight hours. Our aftermarket
business will continue to fluctuate based on flight hours and maintenance events, inventory levels, and customer buying
patterns.
Defense & Space sales are expected to be largely in line with 2015, or approximately flat to up slightly. We anticipate
the U.S. portion of the business will continue to stabilize as we benefit from our strong installed base and service
offerings. Our international business should continue its strong performance despite facing tougher comps year-on-year
after several quarters of double-digit growth in 2015. As Tim highlighted back in March, direct international sales are
expected to be about 35% of our Defense & Space business by 2018, so it will remain a growth engine for us as we
move forward.
Finally, we expect growth in Transportation Systems from new platform launches and steady volume growth in light
vehicle gas applications globally, particularly in Europe. Similar to 2015, we expect to see moderate headwinds from
lower commercial vehicle sales, but also anticipate that the steep declines in CV sales will moderate. Overall, turbo
penetration continue to grow as OEM develops global engine platforms which can fill needs in multiple markets, and
we believe we're well-positioned to meet those OEM demands and win a significant portion of all new platforms. As a
reminder, a majority of our FX exposure is in Aerospace within Transportation Systems. Based on today's rates and our
FX hedging strategy, we continue to expect a year-over-year EPS headwind in 2016 of roughly $0.15.
For ACS, we're expecting growth similar to what we've seen throughout 2015. Roughly 20% of the ACS portfolio is in
residential markets with the remainder serving the commercial and industrial markets. Growth in ESS will be driven by
new product introductions and further penetration in high-growth regions. Our Security and Fire business is
well-positioned for continued growth, and we expect that our energy efficiency and Connected product technologies
will drive further outperformance. As we've mentioned, the acquisition of Elster is expected to add approximately $2
Company Name: Honeywell
Company Ticker: HON US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 17
billion in annual sales, so the sooner we close the deal the better. On the industrial side, we don't expect any near-term
improvement to the headwinds we're facing in industrial safety and also see more difficult comps in S&PS after four
straight quarters of double-digit growth.
In BSD, we expect the Americas distribution business to continue to perform well and that the Building Solutions
backlog and service bank will continue to grow. However, we expect a continued slow conversion into revenues,
particularly in Americas and Europe.
Moving to PMT, we do expect improvement in HPS growth rates driven by the strong backlog and improving service
bank. In UOP, we've seen increased levels of project quotations, and the UOP team is optimistic of strong fourth
quarter orders; but the backlog of equipment and gas processing orders will be down year-over-year, which will make
growth in 2016 challenging. UOP expects sustained catalyst demand after growth in the mid-single digits in 2015.
In Advanced Materials, we expect to benefit from our significant Solstice wins as demand for our next-generation
refrigerants continues to grow and we build upon our over $3 billion in signed agreements. We're continuing to make
significant CapEx investments in UOP and Fluorine Products, and 2016 will be at a similar level of spend to 2015. This
will support an expansion of catalyst production capacity in both the U.S. and China, including MTO and other
catalysts as well as growing backlog of Solstice orders.
Looking at segment margin, we have strong confidence in our ability to sustain the pattern of expansion you've come to
expect from us, even in this slow growth environment and even with the potential foreign exchange movements I
mentioned. As we pointed out, we continue to have opportunity to close the margin rate gap versus our peers. It starts
with new products. They are almost always margin enhancing, and our investments to develop new products are
sacrosanct in Honeywell as evidenced by our R&D as a percent of revenue averaging approximately 5% over the last
three years. Our HOS Gold enterprises have the market and customer connection to ensure that the R&D spend is
properly allocated.
Pricing is also continuing to hold up well. We have a standard pricing methodology, tools, and organization focused on
maximizing value capture. We're as equally focused on costs. The Honeywell Operating System permeates everything
we do. Take our number-one cost category, direct and indirect materials, we continue to mature our already world-class
sourcing processes and tools which are creating an ongoing productivity paradigm. We're also continuing to invest in
value engineering [ph] to lower (40:17) our existing [indiscernible] (40:18) costs and make products easier to produce.
There is also our factories. The HOS methodology is pervasive throughout the supply chain, and in every one of our
factories, you can see the lean manufacturing, supplier Ka-bands, the visual process management and collaboration that
makes HOS work. Also, our creation of production Centers of Excellence where we perform similar activities in one
place is starting to mature and pay off. An example is our electronics manufacturing CoE in ACS where we're now
producing printed circuit boards in one location instead of seven.
And our high-growth region footprint is providing a low-cost base to support this consolidation, one where we derive
the benefit of the stronger U.S. dollar as well. In addition, our functional transformation and organizational
effectiveness initiatives designed to improve quality and support to the businesses and reduce costs are stronger than
ever. We have dedicated teams supporting FT efforts in our back office organizations like IT and finance, and we're
confident that these groups can drive sustained productivity while improving service levels.
Backing up all these efforts is our restructuring pipeline. We have over $300 million in unspent funding that will enable
us to support the initiatives I mentioned. So, we're in the middle of our planning – our annual planning process, and we
look forward to providing you more details regarding our 2016 guidance during our Outlook call on December 16.
Let me sum it up on page 12. Once again, we've demonstrated we can deliver on our earnings commitments despite
limited help from the macro environment, a big reminder of the value of our diversified and balanced portfolio and of
the strength of the Honeywell Operating System. We met our margin expansion earnings growth expectations in the
quarter, with margins expanding in each business as we continue to execute well across the portfolio. We did this while
maintaining our focus and investment for the future as our investments in new products and technologies, high ROI
CapEx, process improvements, restructuring, and high-growth regions continue to grow.
Company Name: Honeywell
Company Ticker: HON US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 17
As we head into the fourth quarter, we expect earnings to grow again 10%, which will set us up for our 6th consecutive
year of double-digit earnings growth. We've had good momentum on margin expansion and free cash flow conversion,
which will continue as we close out the year. There will continue to be puts and takes across the portfolio as we head
into 2016. Our strong margin – segment margin performance and balance sheet capacity give us the confidence and
flexibility to manage through the uncertain economic climate and provide a good foundation for continued earnings
outperformance in 2016 and throughout our five-year plan.
With that, Mark, let's move to Q&A.
Mark Macaluso
Heather, if you could, please open the line for Q&A.
Q&A
Operator
Certainly. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Our first question is coming from Scott Davis with Barclays.
<Q - Scott Reed Davis>: Hi. Good morning, guys.
<A - David M. Cote>: Hey, Scott.
<Q - Scott Reed Davis>: It's good to see a decent print in what's been a pretty crappy tape overall, so...
<A - David M. Cote>: Well, thank you.
<Q - Scott Reed Davis>: [indiscernible] (43:37) keeping the wheels on. But in that spirit, it's interesting, I mean,
you've done a lot of what you call seed planting over the years, and your margins are exceptional. The core growth
continues to be just a little shy of global GDP. I mean, what do you really attribute the core growth, the lower core
growth and the beats in margins? And what I mean is that is the seed planting and such and the new products is that
more of a margin mix shift, improving position and you're willing to trade some volume for margins? Or is it just a
function, really, of the end markets you're selling into?
<A - David M. Cote>: I'd say it's a combination of things, Scott. I think you touched on most of them. One is, it is a
slow growth environment overall. Within that, we've been able to – with the new product launches that we've done,
those end up being margin enhancing launches. But as we also said back in the Investor Day a couple years ago that we
were really going to start to see the sales inflection as we got towards the end of 2016 and into 2017 as we got the plant
expansions done, the Aerospace launches occurred, so we pretty much expected it was going to work out this way.
In the meantime, we had a lot of seed planting we had done on the process improvement side, which continues. There's
just a lot of process improvement still available to us that's going to allow us to continue to expand margins at the same
time that we invest in R&D. So, from an overall sales perspective, while I wish the macro environment cooperated a
little more, and more than we – it's certainly is less than what we expected beginning of the year, we're going to
continue to deliver very well on that sales growth, because we anticipated that it was going to be on the lower side for
2015 and some into 2016 but the inflections would occur after that.
<Q - Scott Reed Davis>: Right. It makes sense. I mean so, Dave, you've been doing this a long time, and we see at
least those of us who've been around a while see some similarities here in 2015 to 2001 and even end of 2007, early
2008. I mean, how do you think about the weakness in emerging markets and the fall off and how that increases risk at
least to the – I mean, just call it a recession risk that we could – a small event could take us off the cliff? I mean, how
do you think about that and how do you plan for it?
Company Name: Honeywell
Company Ticker: HON US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 17
<A - David M. Cote>: From my perspective, it feels like markets really think there's a chance of recession here, and I
guess while there's always a chance that there were some untoward terrorist event somewhere or something drastic like
that, I really don't see that. This feels a lot different than it did in 2001 or 2008 to me, just because after a great
recession, we've never really had a recovery. 2010 was the only real recovery year that we had. After that, it's really
been a slow growth environment and I think that's kind of what we can expect over the next two or three years in just
the way we ought to think about things.
So, I don't see a boom coming, but by the same token, I don't see a crash coming. And I really think that the ability to
perform in that kind of slow growth environment is what's going to differentiate companies, and that's the way we're
planning; that's the way we're thinking about things. We're going to – as you know, we always tend to be conservative
on sales, and we're going to continue to do that, especially in this kind of environment.
<Q - Scott Reed Davis>: Yeah. [indiscernible] (47:34)
<A - David M. Cote>: Does that help, Scott...
<Q - Scott Reed Davis>: Yeah, no, it does. I guess I went back and I read all the transcripts from 2008, and everybody
held on, held on, and held on and had somewhat similar comments, and then all of a sudden the wheels fell off. And I
just – you have to – if you're in our job at least you have to start scenario analysis planning here, and it's feeling a little
sloppy. That's all.
<A - David M. Cote>: I would say...
<Q - Scott Reed Davis>: I don't disagree with your assessment.
<A - David M. Cote>: No, I can understand the transcripts, but if you look at like debt position of the, say, just the
American consumer back then versus today, very different. Bank capability, bank reserves are very different then than
what we're dealing with today.
<Q - Scott Reed Davis>: Yeah. Certainly on credit. Okay. I'll pass it on. I know you have lots of questions. Thanks,
guys.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Jeffrey Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
<Q - Jeffrey T. Sprague>: Thank you. Good morning, everyone.
<A - David M. Cote>: Hey, Jeff.
<A - Thomas A. Szlosek>: Jeff.
<Q - Jeffrey T. Sprague>: Hey. Guys, I was wondering if we could drill a little deeper into UOP and what you're
actually expecting in Q4 in terms of kind of catalysts and other activity. And then just kind of triangulate us then,
where does that bring UOP for the year in terms of year-over-year change versus the prior year for the total year? And
really, where I'm going with that, too then is the thinking about your framework for 2016, the reduction that you're
looking for in activity, is that actually an outright decline in UOP for 2016? And any other color there you could give
us would be helpful.
<A - David M. Cote>: All right. I'll – some overall comments and I'll turn it over to Tom. I'd say you're going to see at
least three different phenomena, I guess. One would be what happens on orders, what happens on sales, what happens
on catalysts. The – from an orders perspective, that's been declining, as you know, and it's been a little lean here during
this year. And I would expect next year orders activity is going to pick up and we see that already, as Tom mentioned,
on quotes activity. So, we expect the backlog to start building again next year.
Company Name: Honeywell
Company Ticker: HON US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 17
When it comes to sales, because of the lag from backlog to sales, we expect that sales will be down next year in UOP
versus this year largely because of that backlog completion and the time it takes to build it back up again. The third
phenomenon, catalysts, we've seen that starting to pick up again, which is a very good sign, as you know. And we also
feel that there's this unrequited demand at this point for refinery reloads, that refinery has been making a lot of money,
so they haven't wanted to ever shut down to reload. And they've preferred dwindling yields to shutting down and
getting the better productivity.
In other words, wanting to produce while the timing was in there and pricing was in their favor. And we've seen
catalyst start to pick up and we expect that, that'll continue through next year. You put all those together, next year we
expect sales to be down but orders backlog to start building up. And this is just why we have a diversified portfolio, I
always say diversity of opportunity for us to be able to manage that, because it will come back and I have no doubt in a
very good way.
Tom, anything...?
<A - Thomas A. Szlosek>: Yeah, just to put a little more specifics, I mean, definitely as Dave said, orders have been
down particularly on the equipment and gas processing side. But with that said, there's a very strong pipeline for the
fourth quarter. We kind of track the quotation activity in our salesforce.com applications and we are seeing a significant
amount of inquiries and requests for proposals and the like. And so, we've got a very – visibility to some – what could
be a strong fourth quarter for orders.
And in terms of the backlog by the end of the year, sure, it'll be down year-over-year but it's not going to be
earth-shattering down. It could be high-single-digits, maybe slightly into double-digits but that will be manageable. On
the catalyst side, they're having a fantastic year and they're going to have – they had a fantastic orders quarter in the
third quarter and it's going to lead to a really strong fourth quarter on the catalyst side. We'll probably be mid- to
high-single-digit growth on catalyst for the full year. And we hope to sustain that level of sales in 2016 on catalyst to
offset the pressure that you'll see a bit from the backlog I mentioned.
<A - David M. Cote>: Jeff, I should add on the process control side, we actually expect sales will be up next year
versus this year, as we start to see the benefit of those mega projects that we've won.
<Q - Jeffrey T. Sprague>: That was going to be my follow-up question and you answered it. So, I'll let it go there and
pass the baton. Thank you.
Operator
And we'll take our next question from Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
<Q - Joseph A. Ritchie>: Thanks. Good morning, everyone.
<A - David M. Cote>: Hey, Joe.
<A - Thomas A. Szlosek>: Hey, Joe.
<Q - Joseph A. Ritchie>: I'll – maybe I will follow up on that last point on HPS because it seems like the growth in
HPS clearly hasn't been as bad as some of your competitors. And so, maybe you can comment a little bit on the share
opportunities there and what, if anything, you're seeing in terms of pricing pressure in that market?
<A - David M. Cote>: Well, it's kind of a tale of two cities. On the short cycle side, we have seen the decline there that
we've talked about. On the other side, looking at these big projects, the mega projects where we've always said, is really
where our big market is and where we do particularly well because of the complexity and the numerous amount of
input and output points that you have to maintain. We've always done well there, and we've done really well over these
last couple of years, winning a lot of these big orders that are going to do very well for us and plant the seeds for the
future.
Company Name: Honeywell
Company Ticker: HON US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 17
When you put all that together, while this year has been a little tougher because of that short cycle impact and the fact
that the mega projects don't come in right away, that reverses next year, and we start to see the benefit of that mega
project kind of coming through.
<A - Thomas A. Szlosek>: And the other thing I would add, Joe, you asked about pricing in Process Solutions, it is
holding up well. As you might expect, with the discretionary cuts in our customer base, that you'd see some pressure
there, but the technology that we have really allows us to deliver some value that we're capturing pricing on. So, it's
holding up fairly well in that segment.
<Q - Joseph A. Ritchie>: Okay. No, that's helpful. And maybe kind of following up a little bit on Scott's comment
from earlier and asking explicitly, we've been in an organic growth, call it, the doldrums for the last few years, and then
your margin expansion has been really impressive. And you've been able to eke out double-digit earnings growth. As
you look into 2016, I mean, is there an opportunity for you guys to continue to do double-digit type growth in the
environment that we're in today?
<A - David M. Cote>: Well, I'd say that's certainly one of the things we're going to be looking at as we go through our
AOP planning, and as I've probably mentioned in the past, we started planning for 2016, in particular, back in January
of this year, recognizing that the kind of macro environment we were in and that it would require more advanced
planning than I'd say a lot of companies do when it comes to how far out you look. And we're going to talk a lot more
about that at the December call, but I fully expect that in a slow growth environment, we're going to continue to expand
margins in a way that people are going to like.
<Q - Joseph A. Ritchie>: Okay. Fair enough. I'll get back in queue and give somebody else a shot. Thanks, guys.
<A - David M. Cote>: I used as many words as I could, Joe, to not give you the answer that, the number you were
looking for.
<Q - Joseph A. Ritchie>: That's fair enough. I expected you to.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
<Q - Howard Alan Rubel>: Thank you very much. Dave, your China numbers were pretty good. Could you elaborate
a little bit on that? I mean, it's probably a tale of multiple cities and products as to what worked, what didn't, and how
are you seeing the environment?
<A - David M. Cote>: Well, yeah, you're right. China is a bit of a, I'd say, a dichotomy at this stage, because there are
some things that are still doing well and some things that aren't doing so well, and depending upon which company you
talk to, you can end up on either side of that. We're one of the guys that are doing pretty well overall. I'd say we are
seeing the oil and gas negative impact there, just like we are around the rest of the world. But when we take a look at
our Aero and Turbo business, that's doing fine; and when we take a look at ACS in particular, that's doing great, still
doing double-digits, and as you know, it's been very good for the whole year, and I'd say driven by a couple of things.
One is the kind of seed planting that we've done in the past that we've talked about where we want to be the local guy,
and there's – have more mid-market product, and that's really helped us be able to expand the markets that was serve.
And pulling together all of the ACS stuff into a single China operation has helped us a lot there also. So, I think some
of this – a good chunk of it is just our increased competitiveness and the ability to go after mid-market.
On the other side of it, we're still in a – the second point of it, we're still in a decent spot. When you take a look at the
overall need for construction, retrofit, old buildings, there's still a lot of upside there for us with ACS. So, I'd attribute it
to the two.
Tom, I don't know if there's anything you want to add?
Company Name: Honeywell
Company Ticker: HON US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 17
<A - Thomas A. Szlosek>: No. I think you hit on them all, Dave.
<Q - Howard Alan Rubel>: And then just as a follow up on a little bit broader, a lot of the results were driven by
productivity or HOS Gold or some things like that, and this has been a terrific program for a long time. How do you
modify it or change it so that people don't become complacent?
<A - David M. Cote>: The other thing I would add in that is all the new products that we add, that we introduce into
the system that have higher margin rates than what we had before because of the value it's able to provide to the
customer through either HUE or combining functions or being able to give them a better price with the better
performance, that really does make a difference over time and just makes you much more competitive and a lot more
profitable. So, that impact is in there also.
In terms of keeping it fresh, that's not that difficult, I'd say, for us to do. And I'd oftentimes say the only thing that I
ever worry about when it comes to Honeywell generally is if we lose our hunger. And I don't think that's going to
happen. Everybody's still pretty hungry and wants to perform, and we want that multiple premium that we think we
deserve, and we're going to keep doing everything we need to get it. And I can promise everybody is thinking that way.
<Q - Howard Alan Rubel>: Thank you very much, Dave.
<A - David M. Cote>: You're welcome.
Operator
And we'll take our next question from Andrew Obin with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
<Q - Andrew Obin>: Yes. Good morning.
<A - David M. Cote>: Hey, Andrew.
<A - Thomas A. Szlosek>: Hey, Andrew.
<Q - Andrew Obin>: Hey. Great execution in a tough environment.
<A - David M. Cote>: Thanks. Much appreciated.
<Q - Andrew Obin>: Hey. Question on BSD conversion. It has been slow for a while. What are you seeing it really
takes for it to pick up, and when was the last time we saw that kind of phenomenon?
<A - Thomas A. Szlosek>: Yeah, I think – Andrew, you're referring to the orders phenomenon...
<Q - Andrew Obin>: Yeah.
<A - Thomas A. Szlosek>: ...I talked about the backlog. Yeah, well, I think it's interesting, the mandates on the federal
side by the President have been pretty clear to the agencies, and they've gone out and done all the RFP work. They've
found the vendors that they want to work with. They've held the competitions, and right now, they're in a state of
needing to move to close these out and actually get the work implemented. And we're seeing some delays on that as
they go through the budgeting process for next year. But I fully expect as they are preparing budgets particularly on the
federal side that this will be a factor that they have to consider and incorporate.
<Q - Andrew Obin>: And when was the last time we saw something like that?
<A - Thomas A. Szlosek>: Yeah, I don't recall.
<A - David M. Cote>: Me either.
<A - Thomas A. Szlosek>: [indiscernible] (1:01:32).
Company Name: Honeywell
Company Ticker: HON US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 17
<A - David M. Cote>: This one is kind of unusual, I have to say. We've been a little surprised by it ourselves. And it
just shows there's a lot of pent-up demand out there. And I mean you are dealing with government, so they don't always
move as quickly as any of us might like. But that's all going to play in at some point here.
<Q - Andrew Obin>: And can I ask – sorry.
<A - David M. Cote>: I would say it's a good deal for them. This is one of those things where with no money out on
from them, they end up saving money, which oftentimes take them some work to be able to understand and convince
others, but once they do, it generally gets there. So this is – I'm pretty confident the stuff is going to convert; it's a
question of timing.
<Q - Andrew Obin>: And if you could give us a preview, and I know you guys are going to have a sort of call about
this, but just in terms of five-year plan, if you look at revenues, it's no surprise, I think, that the revenues are running at
the low end [ph] of the (1:02:36) of expectations. At the same time, if I look at the margin performance, it's just
amazing. How should we think this framework growth versus margin in the longer-term and do you need to adjust
people's behavior inside the company to sort of get more margin in a lower growth environment?
<A - David M. Cote>: I'm not worried about changing behaviors to get the margin rate performance, because we're
doing all that stuff now. So, it's going to work out – that will work out fine. When it comes to how do we perform
versus the five-year plan, who knows what the economy does in 2017 and 2018? As I oftentimes say, the future has this
odd way of unfolding differently than all of us predict. And while I'm predicting slow growth right now, there is a
chance it could go the other way around. I don't see a recession; however, there's a chance that this could just become
something a lot better. Put all that together, and I'd have to say the sales growth, to your point, that we estimated in the
five-year plan looks sporty at this point, even with the inflection that we're expecting.
On the margin rate side, I still have high expectations there. And as you recall, on the Investor Day, one of the things
we tried to show was not just the five-year plan, but where we thought each business in the company could get to. And
when you look at that, if you got – pretty sure we had a chart in there a couple years ago when we did this. When you
look at that and you see, geez, there's still a lot of room to penetrate, and we have higher margin rate peers in every
single business that we're in and for the company in total, and we're going to be able to continue to drive that, and
everybody in the company is driving to those long-term numbers, not just achieving the five-year plan.
<Q - Andrew Obin>: Terrific. Thank you very much.
<A - David M. Cote>: You're welcome.
Operator
And we'll take our final question from Gautam Khanna with Cowen.
<Q - Gautam Khanna>: Hi. Good morning. And I have two questions, if you wouldn't mind. You mentioned the
strong bid pipeline for the Thomas Russell, kind of foreign nat gas processing opportunities. I was just wondering, if
you were to book a couple of those in the next few quarters, could that actually backfill the decline you're expecting at
UOP next year? Or are these projects mostly for delivery beyond 2016? And then I had a quick one on the aftermarket
as well.
<A - David M. Cote>: Yeah, I'd say on the gas, to the extent that we get those orders, we can turn them pretty quickly.
We're going to stay conservative on what do we really expect when it comes to orders. We were encouraged that we
got a couple of orders there in this past quarter versus none in the first six months of the year, and we're hopeful that we
land a couple more in the fourth quarter and early next year, but too early for us to commit on that.
In terms of would that alone be enough to not have a decline in UOP sales next year, I'd say that's unlikely. Most likely,
what we're going to be dealing with is a sales decline when it comes to UOP. But as you know, catalysts are pretty
good for us, and we expect that catalyst to perform well, and that's a, let's say, good mix to have.
Company Name: Honeywell
Company Ticker: HON US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 16 of 17
<Q - Gautam Khanna>: Fair enough. Thank you. And if you could talk a little bit more about the commercial
aerospace ATR spares trends, you mentioned some of the geographies were weak, do you think there's been destocking
going on in certain geographies this year? And can you also talk about provisioning this year and perhaps next year,
given the A350 ramp you cited on the OE side? And thanks.
<A - David M. Cote>: Well, a couple of comments, and then I'll turn it over to Tom. Trying to understand exactly
what is happening out there when it comes to spares is always work, because, you've probably heard me say this before,
but it's kind of an amorphous blob in terms of trying to understand what's in there and what's happening. So as a result
of that, it's another reason we tend to stay pretty conservative in terms of what we expect. Overall, though, we'd expect
continued spares growth next year. It may show as – in the repair and overhaul area rather than what we might define
as spares, but overall, we'd expect growth to continue there. And there has been some softness in China that we've
talked about.
The overall way to look at it, I think the indicator that I always pay attention to is what's happening on flight hours, and
as long as flight hours are growing, it means that there's going to be a demand and pull for spares and repairs of some
kind, and that's the overall long-term phenomenon that matters. How it plays out in the short term is a little tougher to
figure out.
Tom?
<A - Thomas A. Szlosek>: Yeah, I mean, it's – you pretty much said it, Dave. The R&O work that we do does
consume a lot of spares, and that R&O business is growing very strongly. And so it's – when you consider them in their
totality, it's very healthy, and it is in line with the flight hour growth. So, that's what we expect to continue. Yeah,
maybe there's some consolidation in airlines or different buying behaviors, but overall, we've kind of become
accustomed to those and dealing with our approaches. So, I expect us to be – continue to be in line with flight hours.
<Q - Gautam Khanna>: And provisioning? Do you expect any change there year-to-year?
<A - Thomas A. Szlosek>: I think year-over-year, it should be fairly stable.
<Q - Gautam Khanna>: Okay. And what percentage of the ATR aftermarket today is provisioning, if you could just
remind us?
<A - Thomas A. Szlosek>: I don't think we go into that generally.
<A - David M. Cote>: Nice try though, Gautam.
<Q - Gautam Khanna>: All right. Thanks a lot, guys.
<A - David M. Cote>: All right. Bye-bye.
Operator
That concludes today's question-and-answer session. At this time, I'll turn the floor back over to David Cote for any
additional or closing remarks.
David M. Cote
Thanks. We're quite pleased with our continued ability to deliver double-digit earnings growth even in this slow growth
economy. And we recognize that kind of outperformance is what you have come to expect from us and we intend to
continue outperforming. The growth programs that we have funded in every business and region will continue to
deliver and even more so in the future. That growth, combined with continued process improvements from things like
HOS, functional transformation, and HUE and the like, will add to our capability to grow margin rates. And we look
forward to continuing to deliver for our investors. Thanks.
Company Name: Honeywell
Company Ticker: HON US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 17 of 17
Operator
That does conclude today's teleconference. Please disconnect your lines at this time, and have a wonderful day.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.