Company Name: Philip Morris
Company Ticker: PM US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 16
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Nicholas M. Rolli
• Jacek Olczak
Other Participants
• Vivien Azer
• Matthew C. Grainger
• Judy E. Hong
• James Bushnell
• Christopher R. Growe
• Bonnie L. Herzog
• William Marshall
• Michael S. Lavery
• Philip Gorham
• Adam J. Spielman
• Thomas Adrian Russo
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Philip Morris International Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call
is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Philip Morris International management and a
question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Media representatives on the call will also be invited to ask
questions at the conclusion of questions from the investment community.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. Nick Rolli, Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead, sir.
Nicholas M. Rolli
Welcome, and thank you for joining us. Earlier today, we issued a press release containing detailed information on our
2015 third quarter results. You may access the release on our website at www.pmi.com.
During our call today, we will be talking about results for the third quarter of 2015, and comparing them to the same
period in 2014, unless otherwise stated. A glossary of terms, adjustments and other calculations, as well as
reconciliations to U.S. GAAP measures, are at the end of today's webcast slides, which are posted on our website.
Reduced-Risk Products, or RRPs, is the term we use to refer to products with the potential to reduce individual risk and
population harm in comparison to smoking combustible cigarettes.
Today's remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results. I direct your attention to the
forward-looking and cautionary statements disclosure in today's presentation and press release for a review of the
various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements.
Company Name: Philip Morris
Company Ticker: PM US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 16
It's my pleasure to introduce Jacek Olczak, our Chief Financial Officer. Jacek?
Jacek Olczak
Thank you, Nick, and welcome, ladies and gentlemen. Our strong performance in the first half of the year continued in
the third quarter. Organic cigarette volume declined by a modest 1.5%, reflecting lower cigarette industry volume,
primarily in the Asia region, partly offset by market share gains mainly in the EEMA region and Latin American and
Canada region. The cigarette volumes of Marlboro and L&M, our two largest brands, increased by 2.1% and 9.3%,
respectively, in the quarter.
On a September year-to-date basis, our organic cigarette volume declined by 0.6% or by approximately 1.1%,
excluding estimated inventory movement. For 2015, we continue to forecast an organic cigarette volume decline in the
range of 1% to 1.5%.
Net revenues and adjusted OCI in the quarter grew by 5.9% and 9.3%, respectively, excluding currency. This growth
was driven by strong pricing across all regions, partly offset by the impact of lower volume mainly in the Asia region.
Adjusted diluted EPS, excluding currency, grew by 15.8% to $1.61. Our strong currency neutral results in the third
quarter helped drive September year-to-date adjusted diluted EPS growth of 15.8% to $4.62 on the same basis.
As previously disclosed, our fourth quarter results were impacted by incremental investments to support the expansion
of iQOS, including accelerated spending behind planned launches in 2015 and 2016, and to further reinforce the
favorable momentum of our cigarette brand portfolio.
As announced in our earnings release this morning, we are revising and narrowing our 2015 reported diluted EPS
guidance to a range of $4.35 to $4.40 at prevailing exchange rate to reflect a slightly more unfavorable currency
impact, largely offset by an improved business outlook driven mainly by the EU and EEMA regions.
At prevailing exchange rate, our guidance now includes a full year unfavorable currency impact of approximately $1.22
per share versus $1.15 in our previous guidance. Excluding currency, our 2015 guidance represents a growth rate of
11% to 12% compared to adjusted diluted EPS of $5.02 in 2014. This growth rate is above 9% to 11% range that we
provided in July.
The evolution of the impact of exchange rates on our 2015 reported diluted EPS guidance is presented on this slide.
While exchange rates have been volatile throughout the year, the net negative impact on our guidance has been
relatively stable, with the slight increase in our latest guidance driven mainly by a weakening of the Russian ruble
versus the U.S. dollar.
Strong pricing remains the key driver of our financial performance. In the third quarter, we recorded a variance of $522
million, reflecting higher pricing across all four regions. We increased the retail prices during the quarter in key
markets, such as Argentina, Indonesia and Russia. September year-to-date pricing variance of $1.6 billion puts us on
track to achieve full year pricing above our historical annual average of approximately $1.8 billion.
Our results in the third quarter were underpinned by continued market share gains. International market share,
excluding China and the U.S., increased by 0.3 points to 29.2% with strong growth in the EEMA and Latin America
and Canada regions.
Marlboro was a key driver of this market share growth, increasing by 0.4 points to 9.9%. The brand grew share in all
four regions as it continues to benefit from the rollout of Architecture 2.0, which is now available in 84 markets
worldwide.
Importantly, our share in the top 30 PM OCI markets grew by 0.5 points to 37.8%, with share up or essentially flat in
18 of these markets.
I will now provide an update on selected geographies, beginning with the EU region.
Company Name: Philip Morris
Company Ticker: PM US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 16
Excluding trade inventory movements, estimated cigarette industry volume declined by 0.1% in the third quarter,
following declines of 2.7% and 2.3% in the first and second quarters, respectively.
We attribute the strong third quarter performance mainly to improving economic conditions and consumer sentiment,
and now forecast a full-year 2015 decline of around 2.0%.
Our cigarette market share in the EU region declined slightly in the third quarter due mainly to Italy. September
year-to-date, our cigarette share increased by 0.1 point to 39.9%. Cigarette shares in the quarter was supported by the
growth of our two largest brands in the region. Share for Marlboro increased by 0.2 points to 19.3%, driven by strong
performances in France and Spain, while share of L&M increased by 0.1 point to 17.1%.
The combination of our strong pricing, the more favorable cigarette industry volume trend, and our stable overall
cigarette market share resulted in third quarter and September year-to-date adjusted OCI growth of 7.4% and 8.1%,
respectively, excluding currency and acquisitions.
Turning now to Russia in our EEMA region, estimated cigarette industry volume declined by 4.6% in the third quarter.
Given the resilience of the September year-to-date cigarette industry volume trends, we are revising our full year 2015
forecast to a decline of around 7%. Our market share performance in Russia remains strong. August quarter-to-date
share increased by 1.3 points to 28.7% driven by low-price Bond Street and super-low Next. Both brands continue to
benefit from wider distribution, particularly in the eastern part of the country.
Higher pricing drove double-digit OCI growth, excluding currency, in the third quarter. In August, we announced the
further retail selling price increase of RUB 5 per pack across the majority of our portfolio, which will be increasingly
reflected at the retail as the fourth quarter progresses.
Estimated cigarette industry volume in Turkey grew by 11.8% in the third quarter, fueling September year-to-date
growth of 9.6%. We attribute the strong growth to a significant reduction in illicit trade, which is estimated to be at its
lowest level in the past six years.
Our August quarter-to-date market share increased by one point to 44.1%. This marks the first year-over-year quarterly
increase since the third quarter of 2013, and was driven by L&M, Marlboro and Parliament. Favorable volume mix and
pricing drove double-digit OCI growth, excluding currency, in the third quarter.
Moving to Asia region. While our market share in Indonesia was flat in the third quarter, it increased by 0.4 points to
35.2% September year to date. We are pleased by the strength of Sampoerna A, which has continued its growth trend
despite its main variant having crossed the critical IDR 15,000 per pack price point. Dji Sam Soe also continues to gain
share, thanks mainly to its machine-made Magnum variants.
Estimated cigarette industry volume declined by 1.1% in September year-to-date period. We attribute the decline
primarily to a softening in the economic environment and now expect flat full year cigarette industry volume in 2015.
However, we continue to expect an increase of 1% to 3% annually over the mid to long-term, driven by growth in adult
population and rising income levels.
Last week, Sampoerna announced the approval by shareholders of its plan for a rights issue at an exercise price of IDR
77,000 per share. The transactions will be one of the largest stock offerings in the past year across the whole of
Southeast Asia, and showcases the strength of our business in Indonesia.
The total net proceeds to Sampoerna from the rights issue will amount to approximately $1.4 billion. After completion
of the transaction, 7.5% of Sampoerna issued and outstanding shares will be publicly owned in compliance with the
Indonesian Stock Exchange's minimum public shareholding requirement that takes effect from January 30, 2016.
Clearly, this injection of cash will enhance our financial flexibility, and we will determine how best to use it in the
long-term interest of our shareholders while keeping a very watchful eye on currency movements. In the near-term, the
proceeds will be used by Sampoerna for working capital purposes. As you know, beginning in 2015, excise payment
terms in Indonesia have been shortened for the last two months of the year, which will obviously put pressure on our
year-end working capital.
Company Name: Philip Morris
Company Ticker: PM US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 16
In Japan, estimated cigarette industry volume declined by 1.5% in the third quarter, resulting in a decrease of 2.2% for
the September year-to-date period. For 2015, we continue to forecast a full-year decline in the range of 2.5% to 3%.
Our share in the quarter was down by 0.6 points to 25.3% due mainly to the strength and timing of competitors'
offerings in the new differentiated menthol taste segment. We are committed to improving our share in this important
market and are further investing behind our pipeline of innovations.
The underlying business fundamentals in the Philippines continue to improve, though market share trends based on the
total tax-paid cigarette market remains distorted due to higher estimated tax declarations by our principal local
competitor. Based on Nielsen retail audit data, which we believe provides additional insight into our performance in the
current environment, our August quarter to date market share increased by 1.4 points to 73.7%, driven by Marlboro and
our leading low-price brand, Fortune.
This positive share performance was driven by two main factors. First, reduced price gaps since the beginning of the
year, following price increases for super-low priced brands at the bottom of the market, have led to adult smoker
uptrading to Marlboro across all three pillars, and Fortune.
And second, we have strengthened our portfolio through a range of investments in brand initiatives, including new
launches and innovative line extensions. This is evidenced by the strong performance of Marlboro's capsule and highly
mentholated variants, as well as the success of our Fortune capsule variant, which we launched in July this year.
Favorable volume mix, driven by a 17.8% increase in Marlboro shipment volume, resulted in improved profitability in
the third quarter.
The excise tax-driven cigarette industry volume decline in Korea continues to moderate sequentially, resulting in a
decline of approximately 17% September year-to-date, excluding estimated inventory movement, and we now expect a
similar decline for the full year. Our market share in Korea increased by 1.8 points in the third quarter to 20.4%, driven
by the strong performance of Marlboro.
Shifting to our Reduced-Risk Products portfolio, I will now provide a brief update on our commercialization and
clinical assessment of iQOS. During the third quarter, there were a number of important commercial developments. We
launched iQOS in Switzerland in August with an initial focus on five major cities and began the national expansion of
iQOS in Japan in September. We also progressed with our expansion plan for Italy, which includes additional city
launches commencing later this quarter, as well as planned city launches in other markets in late 2015 and early 2016,
for which we have accelerated investment spending this year.
Let me remind you that to-date iQOS has been launched with the convenience claims of no ash and less smell. As we
build our scientific evidence package, which I will touch on now, we expect to be able to broaden our claims.
Clinical trials are a cornerstone of our robust evidence package to substantiate reduced exposure and reduced risk
claims. We are conducting four types of clinical studies: pharmacokinetic studies, one-week reduced exposure studies
in the clinic, three-month reduced exposure ambulatory studies, and the long-term exposure response study. We have
completed all of this, except for the long-term study.
I will now share with you a selection of the results from our three-month reduced exposure study in Japan. In the study,
we measured biomarkers of exposure to harmful and potentially harmful compounds referred to as HPHCs in adult
smokers who switched to iQOS, adult smokers who quit for the duration of the study, and adult smokers who continued
to smoke combustible cigarettes. The biomarkers were measured in each group over five days in the clinic and then for
85 days outside the clinic, allowing us to assess changes in biomarkers of exposure in a close to real-world setting.
We then compared the reductions in exposure biomarkers of the group that switched to iQOS with the group that quit.
This slide shows the Japan study results for four key biomarkers of exposure. The data showed that compared to adult
smokers who continued smoking, shown in red, the reductions in exposure biomarkers for adult smokers who switched
to iQOS, shown in blue, approached those for the adult smokers who quit for the duration of the study, which is shown
in green.
Company Name: Philip Morris
Company Ticker: PM US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 16
In the study, we measured a total of 15 biomarkers of exposure to 15 HPHCs. As illustrated by the chart, the average
reductions in biomarkers of exposure for adult smokers who switched to iQOS, shown in blue, reached over 95% of the
reduction observed in those who ceased smoking during the study period, shown in green. We expect to finalize the
study reports by year-end and will seek to publish the data in peer-reviewed scientific journals in 2016.
Recognizing how important it will be that iQOS is accepted by adult smokers in the same three-month study in Japan,
we measured the level of product satisfaction of participants who switched to iQOS. As shown here, after an initial
decline in product satisfaction, the score rapidly increased and reached levels similar to those for combustible
cigarettes.
In summary, our scientific assessment of the risk profile of iQOS is well advanced and we are on course with our plan
to demonstrate that iQOS is not only a reduced-exposure product, but also a reduced-risk product.
Turning now to our free cash flow, we generated $5.4 billion in the first nine months of the year. This is only
moderately below our free cash flow for the same period in 2014, despite an adverse currency impact of $1.8 billion.
Our resilient cash flow performance was supported by the prudent management of working capital and capital
expenditures. For 2015, we continue to forecast free cash flow broadly in line with the last year level, despite the
significant currency headwind.
In September, our board approved an increase in our quarterly dividend to an annualized rate of $4.08 per share,
reflecting the strong confidence in our business fundamentals and future prospect. This marks the eighth consecutive
dividend increase since the spin-off in March of 2008, representing a total increase of approximately 122% or
compound annual growth of 12%. As of last Friday's market close, our dividend yield of 4.9% was significantly above
that of our proxy peer group, our tobacco peer companies and 10-year U.S. Treasury notes.
In conclusion, we delivered strong currency-neutral results in the third quarter, reflecting improved cigarette industry
volume trends and robust business fundamentals. Our superior brand portfolio supported by superb commercial
organization is driving strong pricing and further market share gains. We continue to progress with the
commercialization and clinical assessment of iQOS. Our resilient 2015 free cash flow has been supported by our
prudent management of working capital and capital expenditures.
Finally, on a currency-neutral basis, our 2015 EPS guidance reflects the growth rate of 11% to 12% versus 2014
adjusted diluted EPS of $5.02. This impressive growth comes notwithstanding the significant incremental investment
that we are making in the fourth quarter to support the expansion of iQOS and to reinforce the favorable momentum of
our cigarette brand portfolio.
Thank you. And I will be now happy to answer your questions.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Vivien Azer of Cowen.
<Q - Vivien Azer>: Hi. Good morning.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Good morning, Vivien.
<Q - Vivien Azer>: If we look to the fourth quarter, considering the very strong year-to-date results that we've seen, is
the implied guidance for the fourth quarter clearly reflecting the incremental investment spending, Jacek, that you just
called out? Can you help dimensionalize the size of those investments, if possible? As well, can you address any trade
inventory timing issues that might weigh on the fourth quarter?
<A - Jacek Olczak>: I think that most of the performance in the Q4, the fourth quarter, will be driven by our
accelerated spending to investments behind iQOS and combustible cigarettes. I think as we look at this today, it
Company Name: Philip Morris
Company Ticker: PM US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 16
essentially should translate that we will be slightly below the fourth quarter of last year, maybe at parity to the fourth
quarter of last year. So yes, there will be quite an investment step-up, as I said, mainly behind iQOS and the
combustible business.
<Q - Vivien Azer>: Okay, fair enough. Thank you. And as we look at the EU and the increasingly more favorable
volume dynamics that we're seeing. I know you guys called out productions in illicit as well as reduced uptake in
e-vapor, but can you comment on the evolution of price elasticities in that market? Because the volume trajectory looks
particularly impressive given the pricing that we're seeing in the region.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: The volume trajectory is impressive, and that's also the reasons why, as you remember, we're
revising the outlook for the total industry volume in the EU. I think it is the second or third time actually, I think, this
year, and it's also led us to increase our overall EPS guidance for this year. Elasticities are turning over some period
into a more attractive territory, if I could call it like this, that for us always elasticity in the range of a minus 0.3 to
minus 0.5, this is what we think is a sort of underlying elasticity for the tobacco category. And we observe it essentially
in most of the countries, including the Southern Europe. Hence, a very strong performance coming from Spain, Italy.
Obviously, Italy, we have our own challenge with Marlboro crossing €5 price point. But overall I think that the industry
is pretty strong and our volumes obviously are pretty strong as well.
I think that many of the positives for the EU, but also from the overall better volume trend, to some extent, depends on
the geography supported by more attractive elasticities or the reduction in illicit trade, should continue to the 2016. So
the way we look at this, and I know that everyone is now puzzled with the Q4 performance, but actually our focus is
already on 2016 and how much of this very positive momentum for the industry, but very much, for us, will continue
into the 2016.
<Q - Vivien Azer>: Perfect, that's helpful. Thank you.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
<Q - Matthew C. Grainger>: Hi. Good morning, everyone.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Good morning, Matthew.
<Q - Matthew C. Grainger>: Thanks. Just first on Indonesia, we've seen continued deceleration in shipments and
consumption this year, which seems more linked to the economic environment than pricing, but it's hard to separate out
how all of these factors may be impacting margins and OCI for the Asia region. So when you take into account all
these various factors, pricing, weaker consumption, some of the investments you've made in selling infrastructure, are
you comfortable with how the profitability and margins of the Indonesian business have been progressing year to date?
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Yes. I'm very comfortable. What we had in Indonesia was more in the, I think, event of the third
quarter, where we've been also adjusting capacity and it resulted in some extra costs which we had to incur. But overall,
I'm not that much worry of the shorter trend of the industry volume. If you look at the smoking incidence in Indonesia,
it's relatively flat. As you remember, Indonesia is the market when you have a relatively high incidence of stick sales,
individual stick sales, and obviously this allows the consumers to adjust a little bit faster if there is softening on the
macro side.
I think we're observing a slight decline in the daily consumption, but as I said in my remarks, I think if you look at the
overall positive demographics of Indonesia and growing the income level, et cetera, I'm still confident that 1% to 3%
growth outlook for the total industry in the longer term is absolutely attainable. Pricing is very strong. We still
obviously don't know how the tax discussions in Indonesia will unfold for the next year.
Company Name: Philip Morris
Company Ticker: PM US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 16
I think on a positive note is that since the government is recognizing that there is the issue with the inflated tax base due
to the change in the payment terms for this year, so we're comparing on a collections side from a government
perspective, 14 months to 12 months, let's remain hopeful that the rates announced for the next year will take this into
consideration, at least to some extent, but we'll have to see.
But in terms of the bottom line growth of Indonesia, I am very confident. We have the right infrastructure. Brand
portfolio is very strong. Share for the year looks – the share – market share developments looks very attractive. And I
think that Indonesia is the market on which we obviously have high expectations of a high growth. So I don't think it's
anything which would worry me at this stage why this should change.
<Q - Matthew C. Grainger>: Okay. And then just one clarification, just in terms of the bottom line growth for
Indonesia and long-term expectations there. Is that consistent with how the business is performing this year? Are you
seeing growth? Or is this better characterized as a year where you're reinvesting a bit back into the market?
<A - Jacek Olczak>: We have been investing in Indonesia last and this year behind the deployment of the commercial
organization. As you know, it's a large country. We're running there the very large sales force, retail selling universe is
one of the largest in the world. So that obviously requires some appropriate investments if we want to continue to have
the right support behind the brands.
We have the markets in other parts of the world, which are also in the emerging side, if you like, and volumes are
actually a little bit developing worse, if I may say, versus Indonesia, and we can drive the double digit bottom line
growth. So I think you cannot ever extrapolate directly from one country to another, but I think Indonesia is in a good
shape to deliver very solid OCI growth, bottom line growth, and remains one of the key contributors to Asia and PMI.
<Q - Matthew C. Grainger>: Okay. Thanks, Jacek. And the just one question on the regulatory side, I just wanted to
get your thoughts on the draft version of the TPP Agreement, which I know right now is sort of under negotiation and
on hold, but assuming this is going to be negotiated and will go forward, what do you see as the practical impact of the
tobacco carve-out if it stays in, and if there's still a realistic potential for it to be negotiated out?
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Well, as far as – the TPP has no impact on our pending cases, right? So it's mainly Australia case.
Look, we'll have to see how TPP will be adopted by the – ratified by the signatories. And if I may on my side, just say
it is unfortunately these negotiations have – or during the negotiations, people who are participating can trade away
fairness and access to justice for all investors, and instead, they embraced the discriminations against the one single
industry.
I'm not sure that people are worried that out of the five or six countries actually, more than the six countries reported
cases when there was a state investors dispute on the two cases related to tobacco. So I think the whole process went in
a completely wrong direction. But important for us is that it doesn't deteriorate our position vis-à-vis the financing very
much, the trademarks around the plain packaging, and does not impact any of our pending cases should the TPD be
adopted.
<Q - Matthew C. Grainger>: Okay. Great. Thanks, Jacek.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Thanks.
Operator
Your next question comes from Judy E. Hong of Goldman Sachs.
<Q - Judy E. Hong>: Thank you. Good morning.
<A - Nicholas M. Rolli>: Good morning, Judy.
<Q - Judy E. Hong>: So just in thinking about 2016, I know it's a little bit too early, but, Jacek, you talked about how
you're focused on continuing the growth in 2016. So as we look at this year, obviously, 11% to 12%, ex-currency,
Company Name: Philip Morris
Company Ticker: PM US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 16
growth above your kind of near to medium-term targets that you laid out at your investor day in 2014. So given the
momentum you have in EU, you're lapping the incremental spending behind the iQOS, just any reason to think that,
that kind of above average or above near to medium-term growth in 2016 can't continue at this point?
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Look, Judy, I mean the truth is that the outlook for the tobacco market is improved – has
improved this year for us in particular in terms of the volume, tax pricing and overall profit growth. So, I mean, many
of the positives which we have observed this year, which we have witnessed this year, in our opinion, should continue
in 2016. I think it's a bit premature at this stage to talk about the specific items for 2016. Our target of 8% to 10% on
the EPS I think is – seems attainable, but we need more information to come up with a formal guidance for next year. I
think in February, we'll be in a good position to talk about it. But yes, the trend from the EU, the Russia, although I still
repeat that Russia remains on our watch list, the headline macros are not extremely positive. Although on the tobacco
market side, on the cigarette market side, I mean, it seems that the consumer is so far navigating pretty strongly.
You will have to also understand that this year, we are very pleased and we're very happy with the performance of this
year, but not necessarily we have the most challenging performance, if you like, the year before. Correspondingly, we
will have to see how the 2016 will compare to 2015. So, I mean, I remain very optimistic. We've been, I have to admit,
surprised ourselves by the strong performance of the EU region. I am very glad that it comes from the number of
markets, the improved total market, but also strong pricing and the market share trends. EEMA is very strong, Latin
America is very strong. Asia, we know that we have a couple of issues, mainly Japan, which I have to admit is
disappointing and below our expectations with regards to market share, but overall, I look – we look very optimistically
into the 2016.
<Q - Judy E. Hong>: Okay. And then just one quick follow-up on FX. So, I think I have it in my notes, I think earlier
in the year, you were hedged about – I can't remember – but 60% on the yen and the effective hedge rate was 1.10 or
around that level. So can you just update on how much you're hedged on the yen at this point and what the effective
rate is?
<A - Jacek Olczak>: We don't talk about – we, at the beginning of the year, we usually give the hedge coverage ratio
for the current year. So in February, when we were giving the currency – the guidance, we said that we've been hedged
at 60%. Obviously, there were a few moments during the year when the yen strengthened, at least for the short period
of time, so we took advantage of that. As you remember, our policy is to look ahead 12 months to 18 months, so we
started to assume that we've already have hedged some of our cash flows from Japan going into 2016. We will disclose
this number when we'll give the guidance in February next year.
When it comes to effective rate, just to help a little bit to estimate the currency impact, in Q3, we've been – our
effective yen – our effective rate of yen to the dollar for us was ¥111, slightly above ¥111, which compares to about
¥98 in Q3 of past year. So you could see for the hedging strategy, we have about ¥10 – ¥9 to ¥10 below the current spot
rates of yen.
<Q - Judy E. Hong>: Got it. Yes. Okay. That's helpful. Thank you.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from James Bushnell of Exane.
<Q - James Bushnell>: Hi. Good morning or good afternoon in Switzerland.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Good afternoon. Good morning.
<Q - James Bushnell>: Thank you. I have two questions, please. The first one is just around pricing in Europe. I think
you had pricing around 5%, which was a little bit softer than the first two quarters of the year. I just wondered if there
was anything specific you'd call out there or if that's strictly a mathematical effect? And then my second...
Company Name: Philip Morris
Company Ticker: PM US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 16
<A - Jacek Olczak>: No.
<Q - James Bushnell>: Sorry. I'll let you answer the first question.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: No. This is mainly, I guess, due to the timing of implementation. So you might have a – it never
will have a perfect type of a timing alignment, right? So some of the pricing which we're taking in 2014 presumably
lapped earlier in 2015, depends on the country, et cetera. It's nothing specific, nothing which is – I think pricing in
Europe this year, so far and the full year, is going to be very strong and much stronger than we had in the past year.
<Q - James Bushnell>: Okay. Thank you. And then just to drill in a bit more on Italy, you've obviously had good
pricing this year. I wondered if you could comment on what the outlook might be for the tax policy in 2016. And now
that Marlboro is clearly above that [ph] round (37:50) price point, which has hurt you on the share basis, are you
comfortable that moving it up further will not have a similar effect? How are you thinking about the share loss of
Marlboro in Italy?
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Well, I mean it's not anything which comes by surprise. I mean, usually, when we cross the –
important from psychological perspective around price point, Marlboro usually is the first brand in the market to do
this. It's not really a, as I said, surprise that the Marlboro has a bit of a headwind at that time.
I'm happy that the prices went up in Italy. There was a small reduction in the price gaps. I mean that's very helpful. You
cross that price point and later on, consumer is a bit less sensitive with the next price increases. So I think that it's good
that Marlboro is behind the price point. Let's put it that way.
<Q - James Bushnell>: Okay. And is there any view from the Italian government in terms of what might happen to
taxes next year?
<A - Jacek Olczak>: No. We'll have to see. I mean, usually, these discussions are taking place literally almost around
the year end or beginning of the year. So, for Italy, we'll have to see how they want to approach it. They made a very
good move, as your remember, at the beginning of this year. Let's hope that they will continue with this direction in
2016.
<Q - James Bushnell>: Okay. Thank you very much.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel.
<Q - Christopher R. Growe>: Hi. Good morning.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Good morning, Chris.
<Q - Christopher R. Growe>: Or good afternoon to you. Thank you. I just had two questions for you, if I could. The
first would be that – your volume performance again this quarter was better than what I expected and you've had some
improvements in the EU and Russia in particular, a little softer in Indonesia in terms of your outlook there. So as you
look at your overall line performance being stronger than certainly I thought for the quarter, I think you're still looking
for like a 1% to 1.5% decline in volume for the year. Are we just pushing more towards the lower end of that range or –
I just wanted to get some color around some of the big markets that have improved and how that's helping your overall
volume performance?
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Look, I would still confirm it will be somewhere in the range of 1% to 1.5%. I don't think we're
in a position now to speculate it will be closer to 1%. As you know, Q4 is always the quarter when you have some
distortions coming from the fact that end of the year or beginning of the year there are tax increases, price changes, et
cetera. So I think that that forecast or the outlook for 1% to 1.5% is pretty realistic.
Company Name: Philip Morris
Company Ticker: PM US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 16
EU has good volumes; it's no question about it. Russia, we're rolling out the €5, five – excuse me – RUB 5 per pack
price increase, so some of this price is already we'll roll through the market. We'll see how that's going to impact the
overall industry and our shipments volume. We have a sequential good performance in Korea. Philippines was a good
performance. We'll see how we close, but it looks good. And as I said before, I think, some of these positive industry
trends, and this is not just a quarter-on-quarter, but longer-term, I think they should continue to happen in 2016.
<Q - Christopher R. Growe>: Okay. I had just one other question for you, which is around the Asia division overall.
And we've talked last quarter on the call about the Asia division approaching your midterm guidance sort of range for
profitability this quarter, and I think year-to-date you're up around 4%. I guess, so related to that, should we expect a
stronger fourth quarter in that Asia region? And then related to that, should we see any inventory adjustments occurring
in Japan in this fourth quarter? It's been kind of an up-and-down pattern for those this year.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: No. We're taking – the inventory adjustments are related to the lower-than-expected market
share. So obviously we don't want to hang it over there with high inventories and try to have something which reflects
that is a shortened forecast. So it depends how we perform in Q4. I mean, there might be some inventory movement.
We're also comparing the Q4 to the distorted Q4 last year when we've been shutting down the factory in Holland in
Europe, which ships – most of the product to Japan used to be shipped from this factory, so we're building some
inventory to be on the safer side.
You go to the overall performance of the Asia region, Asia is the recipient of increased investment this year behind an
iQOS and also behind the combustible cigarettes. Because we're investing – obviously, Japan is in a full-fledged rollout
to about 60% of the total market. We started in September; we have not deployed all tools behind iQOS in the market.
We will be gearing up to opening more iQOS flagship stores. It obviously is going to have a cost impact.
There is an increased investment behind the cigarette category in Philippines behind the very strong momentum and the
narrowing of the price gaps. We continue investment in Indonesia. So Asia will not have a spectacular performance this
year, better than last year, but it will not have a spectacular performance this year.
<Q - Christopher R. Growe>: Okay. Thank you for your time.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
<Q - Bonnie L. Herzog>: Good morning.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Good morning, Bonnie.
<Q - Bonnie L. Herzog>: I have a question on iQOS in Italy and the draft Tobacco Products Directive. Are you
broadly happy with the directive? And is it written such that you will be able to ultimately make reduced risk claims on
iQOS? And then could you update us on any new product and/or technology innovation behind iQOS and when you
might be ready to roll something out?
<A - Jacek Olczak>: I think we're pleased with the developments how the Tobacco Products Directive so far is being
transposed into the Italian legislation. I think critical for us is, and therefore, we announced publicly to date the results
of our 90 days or three months exposure study, because that – one of the key elements of us discussing with the
regulatory bodies on claims, and we're going to make about the product, so that's very positive. We're now at the stage
when we are fine-tuning or finalizing the claims, testing them with our consumers, so we will not have – so we will
achieve the proper understanding as I think we have pretty solid evidence at this stage to progress and support the iQOS
rollouts with the reduced, at least, exposure claims at this stage.
In terms of the new innovations, yes, there is a pipeline of new developments behind iQOS. For obvious reasons,
Bonnie, I won't talk at this stage. But yes, I mean, we have, I believe, a pretty strong innovation, which will come into
Company Name: Philip Morris
Company Ticker: PM US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 16
the market until this year and to the new markets – to the large group of new markets next year when they will see the
further enhanced or improved versions of iQOS, both in terms of HeatSticks and the variety of the blend, taste
directions which we can offer, as well as the iQOS as a device in terms of touch, feel, more user-friendly electronics
and so on.
So as you remember, Nagoya was launched in the pretty industrial, I could say, type of iQOS device. What we're
rolling out already is the new version, much more modern and much more, I believe, appealing to smokers, to adult
smokers. And I think we will be deploying more of these innovations as we speak.
<Q - Bonnie L. Herzog>: Okay. Thanks. Then I just have sort of a big picture question as you think about your
business overall. Can you identify for us markets where you're seeing the biggest improvements on downtrading
pressures easing or moderating, just in summary?
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Well, I think EU overall is – holds very well, actually improved very well, to the extent that mix
essential issue for us does not exist in the EU market. That's very good. You have in EEMA region; you have a strong
performance with uptrading in the big parts of North Africa. Turkey holds very well, I mean, despite the fact that the
total industry volume is up, and obviously, some of this illicit rate recovery usually, initially fuels the bottom part of the
market. But if I look at the parliament and the Marlboro share performance despite the strong market, I mean, it's pretty
– it's very solid.
You have obviously, a big uptrade in Philippines, right, as a result of the closure of the gaps. And what is very
important to us is that it's not one variant of Marlboro which takes the benefit of this uptrading, it's across all variants of
Marlboro, we see that trade. So that's important, but as we said we will have to see how the pricing further unfolds in
the Philippines. But so far this year, exactly as we initially planned, despite the fact that as you remember, we had a
couple of difficult years in Philippines, but the recovery is on a good track.
<Q - Bonnie L. Herzog>: All right. Thank you.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from Bill Marshall of Barclays.
<Q - William Marshall>: Hi. Good morning.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Good morning, Bill.
<Q - William Marshall>: Kind of building off of that question actually, I want to talk about illicit trade, because it
feels like you mentioned it quite a bit in the press release today, mostly on the positive side, particularly in the EU and
EEMA, a little bit more negative it sounded like in Asia with some increases in illicit trade. Has this become more of a
cyclical factor for you guys, and kind of, again, going back to the last question, indicative of uptrading and
downtrading? Or is it something that some governments are starting to take an even harder line and you're seeing some
improvement there?
<A - Jacek Olczak>: No, just to clarify, I think the only market which we have – will or growing illicit trade at this
stage is Australia, right? Maybe something in Pakistan, but this I will leave it alone. Generally, we cannot serve a better
illicit or lower illicit trade levels in the EU in a number of markets, not just one in particular, and that's important.
That's good. And I think this is strongly supporting the total industry recovery or better trends.
We have – it's Philippines alone with the higher declarations coming from Mighty. I mean, that's clearly the recovery of
the tax not paid volumes. And Turkey has extremely strong recovery. I think usually, I think at its highest level, if I
recall, Turkey was about 20% of illicit trade penetration. And I think recently it shrinked to about 11%. So that's really
lowest over the long period of time, incidence of illicit trade in Turkey. If you take a net-net, that's about 10 points of a
straight recovery, and you'll see year-to-date market in Turkey is about 10%. There is underlying growth – secular
Company Name: Philip Morris
Company Ticker: PM US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 16
growth in Turkey, but still 10% only can be explained by the recovery of illicit trade. So we see this in a number of
geographies.
Now, we have invested also a lot of effort, manpower effort, behind engaging with the governments, engaging with the
key stakeholders, being the customs law enforcement, et cetera, international organizations, I think it finally, I mean,
starts bringing a very good fruit, and that's – I think that many of these very positive developments of illicit trade
should in my opinion continue at least in the near future
<Q - William Marshall>: Okay. Great. Thank you. And then just a point of clarification, when we talk about this
spending, particularly behind iQOS, did you push any of that spending from the third quarter into the fourth quarter?
And if so, could you quantify any of that spending for us and what this could mean as we look forward to that push into
2016 at all, or is this kind of you're on track for the plan as you saw it earlier in the year? Thank you.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: I think we had more of the push [ph] from 2016 in (51:33) 2015 as we revised our plans, and we
will roll out iQOS to the more geographies that we have initially planned at the beginning of the year. You might have
some distortions for timings effects between Q3, Q4 because, clearly, once we accelerated our plans for deployment, I
mean, at first, you need to have plan developed and solid, then you come spending. So usually, spending follows a little
bit after the plans are discussed, approved and then released to the market ready to go. But I think it's more of the 2016
going to 2015 in terms of iQOS overall acceleration than just the Q3 to Q4.
And if I remember, we have been indicating that on the back half of the year, we expect the higher spending on iQOS.
[ph] And true also is (52:29) that as we observed during the first three quarters of the year much stronger momentum
behind the cigarette business, we have also stepped up some investment behind that part of our portfolio.
<Q - William Marshall>: Perfect. Thank you very much.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Thank you
Operator
Your next question comes from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
<Q - Michael S. Lavery>: Good morning, good afternoon.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Good morning.
<Q - Michael S. Lavery>: I just wanted to follow up on Vivien's question first, and clarify -make sure I caught what
you said. You said that it might be – we're talking about 4Q – you were talking about parity to last year's 4Q or maybe
slightly below. Was that on an EPS basis?
<A - Jacek Olczak>: This was on a – sorry – yes, this was on an EPS basis. Thanks for helping me to clarify. I said
this will be – we can be slightly below last year, maybe in terms of parity, but this is on an EPS, ex-currency, to be
formally driven.
<Q - Michael S. Lavery>: Well so then, if my math is right, you've got $3.61 for the nine months to date this year. It
looks like that would mean a $0.74 to $0.79 fourth quarter for your full year guidance. But does that reconcile with
slightly below last year? It sounds like that's quite a bit below even with currency included.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Well I mean, I think your math is about right, you take the guidance, and it depends on which
point of a new guidance you're going to base your calculation. You take out what we had in Q4 and that's about the
resulting numbers.
<Q - Michael S. Lavery>: Okay. And then just wanted maybe to dig into that a little bit more and get some color on
the spending. You've got, year-to-date, an average quarterly organic growth rate of around 6.5%, and organic EBIT
growth around 11% average. Last year's 4Q organic EBIT growth was down 12%, so it's your easiest comparison and
you have a lot of momentum this year. How much could you possibly spend? I mean it looks like you might need $300
Company Name: Philip Morris
Company Ticker: PM US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 16
million to $400 million of incremental investments to get to the kind of numbers you're talking about. Do you even
have the ability to spend that much in an effective way in one quarter?
<A - Jacek Olczak>: We are a very large organization. And we...
<Q - Michael S. Lavery>: Okay.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: [indiscernible] (55:01) quite sizable brands Marlboro and L&M, et cetera, and iQOS itself. I
think your $400 million is on a high side, but I think it will be obviously substantial if you do the comps. When you do
the comps, you have to just notice one thing, the growth on the OCI level last year versus growth on the EPS level. I
mean they were slightly different. We had a few items below the OCI level, right? But I will still stay with my math on
the EPS in the Q4, on an ex-currency basis we could be below what we had last year.
<Q - Michael S. Lavery>: Okay. No, that's very helpful. Thanks. Just touching base back on Indonesia. You're saying
that you think the category volumes probably are going to be about flat this year. But with the last two quarters down
over 4%, it looks like that would need about a 3% gain in 4Q, or about a 7 point improvement. Obviously, there's some
macro pressure there that's helping the inflation side, because inflation's moderating, but is there any particular catalyst
for why the category might accelerate that rapidly for 4Q that maybe we're missing?
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Well, this is a cigarette industry estimate on the quarterly basis, and I said this on one of the
previous calls, I wouldn't pay that much attention how the estimate is being done and what the numbers are on the
quarterly basis. I think for the full year, I think it seems that Indonesia, based on our outlook, Indonesia will turn to be
flattish or flat versus last year.
You might have some movements between the quarters. It's not really the consumption level. It's the industry shipment
volumes. So we'll have to look into the timing of the price changes in the market and what has happened last quarter
versus fourth quarter of last year, and what we expect will happen in the fourth quarter of this year.
I think for this year, yes, I mean you have the softening of the volumes in Indonesia. I mean flat is a low sort of a
performance. But as I said in my remarks, nothing really comes in Indonesia which will trouble us in our view, than in
the longer term, the market has a potential to grow in the 1% to 3% range. [indiscernible] (57:35).
Critical for us is to know what are the tax rates for the next year; and then we can have a better estimate how
Indonesian markets will perform there. Good thing is that the pricing is very strong. I think a lot of investments which
we have made behind the commercial organization as well as the capacity restructuring between the handmade and the
hand-rolled and machine-made cigarettes is down [indiscernible] (58:07) performance next year.
<Q - Michael S. Lavery>: Okay. No, that's helpful. And then just on Australia, you've mentioned the strong pricing
there and the gains in Bond Street and some other positives. Just on a total view, that certainly was a big issue last year.
It seems like it's at a minimum, not getting the same attention because it's improved a good bit. Can you just put your
total business there in context and how you see maybe the rest of the year or beyond in terms of the outlook for that?
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Well, I don't think we're done with Australia just yet, okay. For instance, this year, Australia is by
far less of a drag for our Asia and the total PMI performance that was last year. We can observe this year that their deep
discount segment somehow moderated, so muted its growth compared to how fast the segment was growing for
essentially all quarters of last year.
We are much more present in the segment with Bond Street. I mean it had a significant share advancement. We still
observed quite a level of discounting in the market. I mean now the markets, on a total market size is a bit distorted
because just after the tax change – tax price change, we'll have to see. I think with this and the forthcoming tax
changes, we should hopefully see some moderation of the heavy discounting at very much at the bottom of the market,
but we'll have to see. The trends are slightly better, but I wouldn't call that Australia is behind.
<Q - Michael S. Lavery>: Okay. That's very helpful. Thank you.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Thank you.
Company Name: Philip Morris
Company Ticker: PM US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 16
Operator
Your next question comes from Philip Gorham of Morningstar.
<Q - Philip Gorham>: Hi, everyone. Thanks for taking my call.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Hi.
<Q - Philip Gorham>: Jacek, you're building a compelling case behind iQOS. My question is how would you
characterize your confidence at this stage that it's heat-not-burn that will be the category that emerges with the highest
acceptance rate among consumers? And then what's the implication of that on other categories? Does it still make sense
to spend behind platforms three and four, for example? Thanks.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: I'll maybe start with the second part of your question. I think it makes sense to continue our
investment in terms of the product development and its assessment, a scientific assessment behind the other platforms,
because we think that there is a market for both truly a fully electronic cigarettes, as well as the products which are
based on the tobacco heat-not-burn.
Heat-not-burn today offers consumers what we observe in the market a level of a satisfaction which is very comparable
to the combustible cigarette. Knowing that the evidence which we have presented also today. It makes us confident that
this is a product which significantly reduces the risk profile of the consumers versus continuing smoking combustible
cigarette. I think we will be in a position to demonstrate, based again on our studies and the whole portfolio of
evidence, that the product is reducing significantly the risk of smoking versus the traditional combustible product.
Acceptance is a very important component also in the view of our strategy of not only demonstrating that we can
reduce the harm to individual, but we can reduce the harm to population. Because you might have a great product,
which has a reduced risk profile, but is not accepted by consumers; and, frankly speaking, you have not addressed the
problem, the issue.
So, yes, we remain very confident that the current product which we have, iQOS, has a big potential. But we also think
that not all consumers will like to stay within a tobacco-based product and for a variety of reasons they may elect to go
into the straight, non-tobacco based but nicotine-based electronic cigarettes, as we have observed initial high interest in
many markets, including UK and some others in the Europe or the U.S. So, yes, we will continue investing behind all
four platforms, as we believe there is a room and a potential for each of these platforms going forward.
<Q - Philip Gorham>: Okay. Great. Thanks, Jacek.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from Adam Spielman of Citi.
<Q - Adam J. Spielman>: Hello. Thank you for taking my question. On the Reduced-Risk Products, can you tell me
who will give you permission to make the claims, either reduced exposure or reduced-risk claims? Is that national
authorities in every country? Would it require EU central permission from Brussels for EU countries?
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Well, in the case of the United States, that's clearly FDA. In the case of the EU, the way the
European Tobacco Products Directive is being [ph] transformed (01:03:53), it is being delegated to the individual
member states. We will have to have – well, at first, we'll have to determine what sort of a process individual member
states wants to have in their territory to allow for the claims, et cetera. But it's very, very specific or very different
country by country, market by market. There are some markets today where we can go and make claims already as we
say today.
Company Name: Philip Morris
Company Ticker: PM US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 16
<Q - Adam J. Spielman>: And just to follow-up that, within the markets that we're currently talking about, which I
guess is the European markets, particularly Italy, Switzerland, which is obviously non-EU, Japan, where are the
countries where you have the best dialogue and you think you've got the best chance of making a health claim or a
reduced-exposure claim?
<A - Jacek Olczak>: I think in all the countries we have a good engagement. The critical is that you need to support
these discussions, this engagement, with an evidence. And therefore it was very critical for us that we're progressing as
per plan in conducting the studies, as we announced today, the 90-day study which was important, but not the only one
piece of evidence which we are bringing to the table. Obviously, the more evidence you have at the table, the more
constructive discussions you have. But I think we're on a good path in each of the countries, despite the fact that they
have some differences in the regulatory regimes.
<Q - Adam J. Spielman>: Okay. Thank you very much.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Thank you.
Operator
We have time for one more question. Your final question comes from Thomas Russo of Russo/Gard (sic) [Russo &
Gardner].
<Q - Thomas Adrian Russo>: Hi.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Hi, Tom.
<Q - Thomas Adrian Russo>: Congratulations on wonderful numbers. Keep up the good work. I was curious, I may
have missed the comments on that Trans-Pacific Partners (sic) [Trans-Pacific Partnership] [ph] back up (01:06:05)
forward revising legislation and wondered what comments you may have made or what you might make on that?
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Well, the comment I made...
<Q - Thomas Adrian Russo>: And again, congratulations.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Tom, thank you very much for congratulations. On the TPP, I made two comments. One is that
TPP has no impact on the pending cases which we have. So most importantly the case which we have in Australia, this
should not – will not be impacted by the TPP. Going forward, we'll have to see how TPP is going to be finally adopted
by the individual signatories of this treaty. As I hear, and in the U.S. in particular, but also in some other places, not
necessary that it receives the warmest reception, for obvious reasons which I mentioned.
Because the negotiators have singled out one industry and if you look at the statistics of all the Investor-State Dispute
so far, there were more than 600 disputes between the investors and the state. And only two of these disputes relates to
tobacco. So it's difficult to find the logic while one industry is being carved-out. It was all about the letter of law, equal
treatment, equal access to justice, [ph] and some of our (01:07:31) negotiators have violated or forgot about that
principle. It's a sad story, but as I said, at this stage, I don't think it impacts any of our abilities to defend our position
with regards to the protecting our trademarks.
<Q - Thomas Adrian Russo>: Thank you. So you will challenge it because it's prejudicial and arbitrary and don't
think it compromises your cause of action regarding Australia.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: That's correct.
<Q - Thomas Adrian Russo>: Thank you.
<A - Jacek Olczak>: Thank you.
Company Name: Philip Morris
Company Ticker: PM US
Date: 2015-10-15
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 16 of 16
Operator
This concludes the question-and-answer session of today's conference. I will now turn the floor back over to
management for any closing remarks
Nicholas M. Rolli
Thank you very much. This ends the call. If you have any follow-up calls, the Investor Relations team is in Switzerland
and we'd be happy to take your call. Thank you very much. Have a great day.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference. You may now disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.