Company Name: ConocoPhillips
Company Ticker: COP US
Date: 2015-10-29
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 18
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Ellen R. DeSanctis
• Jeffrey W. Sheets
• Matthew J. Fox
Other Participants
• Doug Terreson
• John P. Herrlin
• Doug Leggate
• Scott Hanold
• Guy Allen Baber
• Phil M. Gresh
• Paul Sankey
• Paul Y. Cheng
• Roger D. Read
• Bob Alan Brackett
• Blake Fernandez
• Neil S. Mehta
• Edward George Westlake
• Ryan Todd
• Evan Calio
• James Sullivan
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Welcome to the third quarter 2015 ConocoPhillips earnings conference call. My name is Christine, and I will be your
operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen only mode. Later we will conduct a
question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ellen DeSanctis, VP Investor Relations and Communications, ConocoPhillips.
Ellen R. DeSanctis
Thanks, Christine, and good morning, everybody. Thank you for joining us today. Our speakers this morning are Jeff
Sheets, our EVP of Finance and Chief Financial Officer and Matt Fox, our EVP of E&P.
Let me take care of a couple of quick administrative matters. First of all, I wanted to make sure that all of you saw the
note in this morning's earning release that we plan to announce our 2016 capital budget on December 10. We also plan
to host a conference call in conjunction with that release, and the reason is to provide some additional details about our
operating and financial plans that will include some specifics on our CapEx, our operating costs, our volumes, and also
a brief region and program overview. That's a bit of a departure for us, but we think a very good and early opportunity
Company Name: ConocoPhillips
Company Ticker: COP US
Date: 2015-10-29
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 18
to share our plans for next year, particularly given the ongoing market uncertainty. We will provide the details for that
call very shortly.
Now if you turn to page two, you'll see our Safe Harbor language. We will make some forward-looking statements this
morning and the risks and uncertainties in our future performance are described on this slide and also with our periodic
filings with the SEC.
And then finally, once again during Q&A we'll limit questions to one plus a follow-up. That way we can hope to get
everybody through the queue within our planned hour. And now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Jeffrey W. Sheets
Thank you, Ellen, and thanks everyone for joining our call today.
Before reviewing the quarter, I will make a few brief comments about how we're addressing the current low commodity
price environment, which is clearly impacting financial performance across the sector. This down cycle poses
significant challenges, and we're taking aggressive actions across our business to position for lower, for low and more
volatile oil prices in the future. These actions plus our unique portfolio characteristics are the key to delivering on our
value proposition through the cycles.
Over the past few years, we've high-graded the portfolio, organically grown a world-class position in North American
unconventional plays, and are nearing completion on several major projects. We are increasing our capital flexibility,
lowering the underlying cost structure of the business, and continuing to reduce exposures to assets that won't compete
for capital in our portfolio, including deepwater exploration and North American natural gas.
As we go through the call today, you should be listening for a few key messages. The underlying operational
performance of the businesses very strong. We continue to exercise capital flexibility and are further reducing our
planned 2015 CapEx spending. We are accelerating reductions in our operating costs and we're on track to exceed our
cost reduction target in half the time we expected. We're in strong shape financially. And finally, we're closing the gap
on cash flow neutrality.
These actions set us up well for 2016 and beyond. As Ellen mentioned, we look forward to providing more details
about our 2016 operating plan in December. So while the current environment continues to test the sector, we are
focused on the things we can control and moving decisively to position ourselves for a market with greater price
uncertainty.
So with that said, let's dive into the quarterly results starting on slide four. The key theme for the quarter is the
underlying business continues to perform very well. We produced 1.554 million BOE per day, which is 4% growth
year-over-year. Matt will cover our operations in more detail, but let me hit the high points. We achieved first oil from
our Surmont 2 megaproject, which should continue ramping up through 2017. We also brought on our Drill Site 2S and
CD5 projects online in Alaska during October. We've brought six major projects online so far this year and we expect
to deliver cargos from the seventh, our APLNG project, before year end.
Clearly, earnings were challenged given weak commodity prices. Our adjusted loss of $0.38 per share was in line with
consensus. Cash flow from operations was $1.3 billion. This looks low and it excludes impacts of working capital
changes. When you adjust for special items, including the rig termination, restructuring costs and pension settlement
expense in the quarter, that $1.3 billion is more like $1.6 billion, so about what you'd expect in this price environment
given the impact of higher costs and lower production related to turnaround activity this quarter in our Alaska, UK and
Malaysia business units.
These three business units had 40,000 barrels per day of lower production in the third quarter compared to the second
quarter. These turnarounds are now complete and the high margin, oil weighted production from these business units
will return in the fourth quarter. Operating costs were down 18% when adjusted for special items and we'll talk about
that more in a minute. And we ended the quarter with $2.4 billion of cash.
Company Name: ConocoPhillips
Company Ticker: COP US
Date: 2015-10-29
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 18
On the strategic front, we modestly increased our quarterly dividend in July. This was an important signal to the market
that our dividend continues to be a top priority. We also announced our plan to further reduce deepwater exploration
spending and began implementing a phased exit. As previously announced, we booked the rig termination fee this
quarter. Finally, we are progressing several non-core asset dispositions across the portfolio that provide additional
sources of cash. We'll provide an update on these activities in December.
So now let's look at our financial performance on slide five. The story for earnings is weak commodity prices. Realized
prices were down 16% sequentially and 49% on a year-over-year basis. As a result, we reported an adjusted loss of
$466 million or the $0.38 a share. The lower commodity prices were partially offset by higher volumes and lower
operating costs after adjusting for special items.
Third quarter adjusted earnings by segment are shown on the lower right side of this side. Segment adjusted earnings
are roughly in line with our sensitivities, and the financial details for each segment can be found in the supplemental
data on our website. So it was a tough quarter financially, but the underlying business performance remains strong.
Moving to slide six, I'll cover our production results. Our third quarter production from continuing operations
excluding Libya averaged 1.554 million BOE per day compared to 1.473 million per day in the same quarter last year.
Adjusting out 25,000 BOE per day due to lower third quarter downtime and dispositions, we achieved growth of 4%, or
56,000 BOE per day. Our growth continues to come primarily from North American liquids and APLNG ramp gas
which will soon become liquids priced LNG. On a price normalized basis, this should help drive margins and returns.
Now if you'll turn to the next slide, I'll cover our year to date cash flow waterfall. This chart summarizes our year to
date sources and uses of cash. Starting at the left, we began the year with $5.1 billion of cash. Through September, we
generated $5.8 billion from operating activities excluding working capital. Working capital over this period was a $600
million use of cash. Through three quarters, we receive $600 million in disposition proceeds. As we mentioned, we
currently have several assets on the market. We expect several them to close this year and we'll provide an update in
December. As we said before, you should expect us to generate $1 billion to $2 billion per year as part of our routine
high-grading process. We increased debt by $2.4 billion during the second quarter but added no debt in the third
quarter. Through the third quarter, we've spent $7.9 billion in capital, paid our dividend and ended with $2.4 billion of
cash on the balance sheet.
We believe we are in strong shape financially. Between cash on hand, debt capacity within a single-A credit rating and
expected asset sales proceeds, we have the means to manage through the current period of low prices.
That was a pretty quick recap of the financial results for the quarter. Now I'll turn the call over to Matt who will go
through the operational performance and close with a 2015 guidance update. What you're going to hear is we're driving
positive momentum in the business. All things equal, these steps we are taking should drive improved 2016 earnings
and cash flow.
So I'll turn it over to Matt.
Matthew J. Fox
Thanks, Jeff. As Jeff mentioned, we performed very well this quarter operationally. We successfully completed several
major turnarounds, continued to bring major projects online and exceeded our production targets. I will now quickly
run through the segment results, and then we'll move on to your questions. So let's start with slide nine.
In the Lower 48, third quarter production averaged 551,000 BOE per day. That's a 1% increase in from same period last
year and a 1% decrease sequentially. Unfortunately though, this represents a 12% increase in our crude oil year over
year. We're currently running 13 rigs in the Lower 48, six in the Eagle Ford, four in the Permian – four in the Bakken
and three in the Permian, one of which is in the unconventionals.
And we're delivering more for less across our programs. In fact, we've seen 20% to 30% lower drilling and completion
costs compared to a year ago. About half of that's driven by program efficiencies and about half is from deflation
Company Name: ConocoPhillips
Company Ticker: COP US
Date: 2015-10-29
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 18
capture. Production from these three unconventional plays was 249,000 BOE per day this quarter. That's an increase of
28,000 barrels versus the third quarter last year, but a decrease of 6,000 barrels a day sequentially. As we forecasted,
given our current level of rig activity from production from these plays plateaued in the third quarter and we'd expect to
see a modest decline in the fourth quarter. Clearly, 2016 production will depend on the level of capital flexibility we
choose to exercise. However, you should not expect us to increase capital in these plays at current prices.
Despite our stated plans to reduce deepwater exploration spending overt time, we're continuing to fund activity based
on existing commitments while we also progress possible monetization options. This is important for protecting the
value we've created from our existing program. In the Gulf of Mexico, we had encouraging results from the recent
Shenandoah appraisal well. We're currently drilling the Vernaccia and Gibson exploration wells and we expect to spud
the Melmar prospect this quarter.
In Canada, we produced 315,000 BOE per day, a 14% increase year over year. This growth came mostly from strong
well performance, ramp up at Foster Creek Phase F and lower planned downtime. We achieved a major milestone
during the quarter with first oil at our Surmont 2 oil sands project. This project will continue ramping up through 2017
and at full production we expect to increase Surmont's total gross capacity to 150,000 BOE per day. We spudded the
Cheshire exploration well offshore Nova Scotia this month, and that's the first of two exploration well commitments.
Next, let's review our Alaska and Europe segments on slide 10. Alaska's average production was 160,000 BOE per day,
an increase of 3% compared to last year's third quarter due to lower planned downtime. We successfully completed
several major project turnarounds during the quarter at Prudhoe and Kuparuk. We recently achieved two key project
milestones with first oil from CD5 and Drill Site 2S in October. At peak production, we expect these projects to
contribute about 15,000 barrels a day of crude. So we're seeing the benefits of project activity that will help to keep our
Alaska production relatively flat for the next several years. We completed our six cargo export program from Kenai in
2015 with the last cargo delivered in October, and we applied for a license from the DOE to continue our export
program in 2016.
Moving to Europe, third quarter production averaged 192,000 BOE per day. We had several major turnarounds across
the UK that were all completed successfully. And we're continuing development drilling at Ekofisk South and Eldfisk
II in Norway.
Now we'll cover the Asia-Pacific and Middle East and other international segments on slide 11. In the APME segment,
we produced 332,000 BOE per day in the third quarter. This was a 10% increase from the same period last year, driven
by Gumusut and increased ramp gas from APLNG. In Malaysia, Gumusut underwent its first major turnaround, which
was completed ahead of schedule.
In Australia, we expect APLNG Train 1 to deliver its first cargo in the fourth quarter. In the downstream project, all the
mechanical runs are complete. And in the upstream project, 14 of the 15 gas processing facilities are now fully
commissioned.
In other international, the Athena rig from Angola has arrived in Senegal, where we expect to conduct a six-well
exploration and appraisal program starting now and extending into next year. And in Libya, production remains shut-in
as a result of the ongoing regional instability.
So let me close on the next slide by giving you some updated guidance for 2015 and summarizing the key takeaways
from our call. The title of this slide says it all. We're reducing our 2015 CapEx, reducing our 2015 operating cost, and
delivering strong underlying business performance. Like Jeff mentioned, this will help drive solid momentum into
2016.
On the production front, we now expect to exceed our full-year 2015 production guidance. That's in large part due to
delivering our seven major project startups this year. We expect to achieve fourth quarter production of 1.585 million to
1.625 million BOE per day, and that puts our full-year 2015 guidance range at 1.585 million to 1.595 million BOE per
day. And as the chart shows, this represents 3% to 4% growth from continuing operations excluding Libya, up from the
2% to 3% we expected at the start of the year.
Company Name: ConocoPhillips
Company Ticker: COP US
Date: 2015-10-29
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 18
The table captures several other key guidance items and shows the progress we've made since 2014 and through 2015.
The far right column is our current 2015 guidance, and all of these numbers exclude special items. We now expect our
2015 capital spending to come in at $10.2 billion. That's a 40% decrease from 2014 and an 11% decrease from our
initial outlook for 2015. About half of the reduction is related to market factors like FX and deflation, and about half is
due to discretionary deferrals and program efficiencies.
On operating costs, we're now guiding to $8.2 billion for 2015, and that's a 15% reduction compared to 2014. You'll
remember, in April we set a target to reduce operating costs in 2016 by $1 billion compared to 2014, and what our
revised 2015 operating cost guidance represents is an acceleration of this effort. In fact, we've now exceeded our $1
billion target and in half the time. About half of these savings came from market factors like deflation and FX impacts,
but the rest came from steps we've taken to lower the cost structure of the business through G&A reductions, new
operating philosophies, and supply chain efficiencies, and we're not done yet. We're also changing our full-year
corporate segment guidance to a net expense of $800 million, and that's a 20% reduction from initial 2015 guidance.
I'll close by repeating the key messages you should take from this call. The underlying operational performance of the
business is very strong. We continue to exercise capital flexibility, and we're further reducing our planned 2015 capital
spending. We're accelerating reductions in our operating costs and are on track to exceed our cost reduction target in
half the time we expected. And finally, we're in very strong shape financially.
So we are all focused on safely and successfully executing our operations while positioning the company to be more
flexible and resilient to deliver on our long-term commitments to shareholders. We look forward to providing more
details of our operating plan for 2016 in December.
So now I'll turn the call over to you for Q&A.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Doug Terreson of Evercore ISI. Please go ahead.
<Q - Doug Terreson>: Good morning, everybody.
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: Hello, Doug.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Hello, Doug.
<Q - Doug Terreson>: In U.S. unconventional, in that arena, industry productivity gains were pretty significant in
recent years, but more recent data indicates that we've had a slowdown even though companies seem to be drilling their
best resources and using optimal technology and personnel too. So while this could be a blip in the data, it could also be
that technological limits are being reached by some and that science might play a greater role in recovery rate capture
in the future. So I just wanted to get your insights into this paradigm or maybe into this transition that's underway, that
is if you think that there is one. And also, based on your experience and with your credentials, where do you think we
are in understanding the shale resource overall?
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: So, Doug, I think from our perspective, the sweet spots really matter so you're going to get the
best performance out of the sweet spots. And you're probably right that people are focusing there just now with their
limited number of rigs running. But I wouldn't say that our perspective is that we've reached any sort of technological
limit. We are continuing to see encouraging results from our pilot tests on different well spacings, and we're continuing
to run our stimulated rock volume pilot in the Eagle Ford and leaning a lot. That's going to allow us to optimize well
spacing and completions in the future. And even in the Bakken, we're moving from open hole sliding sleeve
completions to cemented liner and plug-and-perf. And we're seeing improvements there from our pilot tests. So from
our perspective, we're not seeing ourselves hitting any technology limit yet.
Company Name: ConocoPhillips
Company Ticker: COP US
Date: 2015-10-29
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 18
<Q - Doug Terreson>: Okay, Matt. So I don't disagree with that, but it seems like the industry may be slowing down
somewhat. And so I recognize it's hard for you to maybe attribute that to other factors because it's not your company.
But do you have any insight as to what may be those drivers?
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: We see that in other people's individual well performance, but I'm not quite sure what to
attribute that to, Doug.
<Q - Doug Terreson>: Okay. Okay, thanks a lot.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from John Herrlin of Société Générale. Please go ahead.
<Q - John P. Herrlin>: Hi.
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: Hi, John.
<Q - John P. Herrlin>: I know you're going to announce your CapEx budget for next year on December 10. But from
a portfolio management perspective, is it safe to say that you're focusing more on short and intermediate term type
projects or, and deferring the longer-term type business?
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: Really what's going to happen for us, John, is that as we move from 2015 into 2016, we're
seeing about $2 billion of major project spend roll off as we complete in particular Surmont and APLNG, so we have a
choice as what to do with that. And the additional capital flexibility that's appearing, and we could redirect it to shorter
cycle or we could just hold on and hold onto those opportunities for another time, and that's exactly the sort of detail
we're going to provide in the December call.
<Q - John P. Herrlin>: Okay. Next one for me is a quickie. Ducks, you're hearing a lot of companies now say the in
concept du jour is to accumulate on completed wells. Is that part of your MO?
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: No, it's not. Our view is if you don't want to complete the well, don't drill them. So we don't
have a strategy to drill wells and intentionally not complete them. We are reducing the number of uncompleted wells as
we've gone through this year. We started the year with about 135 wells that were uncompleted and will end the year
with about 95 wells. But that's just the sort of natural course of executing our program. It's not a deliberate choice to
drill wells and not complete them.
<Q - John P. Herrlin>: Thanks, Matt.
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: Thanks.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Thanks, John.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Doug Leggate at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.
<Q - Doug Leggate>: Thank you. Good afternoon, everybody.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Hey, Doug.
<Q - Doug Leggate>: I got a couple of questions, also, if I may. First of all, on I guess there is a curious statement in
the release about disposals, Matt, and just kind of thinking out loud about head count reduction on a large couple of
projects coming online. You've got a very large tail of non-operated relatively small assets, particularly in light of a
potential exit in the Gulf of Mexico. So I'm just wondering, order of magnitude, you've got 80,000 barrels a day of gas
equivalent in the U.S. that my understanding is you're marketing. What do you think the scale of the non-core
disposals, if you want to call it that, stands at once you get those big projects online, and what's the likely timeline to
Company Name: ConocoPhillips
Company Ticker: COP US
Date: 2015-10-29
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 18
see some movement on the asset sales?
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: Yes, Doug, it's no secret that we've got several non-core assets on the market, including the
North American gas assets. But we're not ready to give details of those at this time. We are going to get some more
detail in December, but what you should expect is something of the order of $1 billion to $2 billion annually. But we
are going to give you more detail in December. But it's not appropriate for us to go into detail just now.
<Q - Doug Leggate>: But annually needs a number of years on it Matt. What are we talking about, one year or five
years or what?
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: I would say that typically on average over any period of time, we should be cleaning the
portfolio and that could be $1 billion to $2 billion a year, so annually, yeah.
<Q - Doug Leggate>: Okay. My follow up is on, Jeff, maybe on cash flow. It looks like cash flow was, operating cash
flow was a little weak this quarter, and I'm trying to decipher what was going on at the affiliate level. It's thinking about
your $60 sort of cash breakeven by 2017 and obviously the cost reductions announced today. So can you just kind of
help reconcile what was going on with the cash flow this quarter, and where do you think that cash breakeven now
stands after your latest round of cost reductions? And I will leave it there. Thanks.
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: On the affiliate level, we really have three major equity affiliates. You have the Foster Creek
Christina Lake oil sands joint venture, the APLNG project in Australia, and the QG3 project in Qatar. Of those three,
two of them are still in a fairly heavy investment phase, so for the APLNG we don't get any cash distributions out of
there. It's all retained to cover capital in FCCL this year. It's the same kind of story that all the cash flow is being
retained to fund capital there. And we do get some distributions out of QG3.
As we move forward in 2016 and 2017 with the startup of APLNG and as additional phases, and we would assume
some price recovery happens for Foster Creek and Christine Lake, we expect that we would see distributions coming
out of all three of those joint ventures. And as we've talked previously, that's a pretty significant source of cash flow to
bring us closer to cash flow neutrality.
As we've also talked before, as we think about cash flow and neutrality in 2017, we have increasing levels of capital
flexibility, increasing production levels to where we feel like we're going to be able to get there at a pretty broad range
of commodity prices. So there's not really just kind of one commodity price number that we would point out as what it
takes for us to get to cash flow neutrality in 2017.
<Q - Doug Leggate>: So nothing specific this quarter is because the cash flow is a lag?
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: Well, we had some unique effects this quarter. If you look at the $1.3 billion of cash from
operations before working capital, and the $1.9 billion after working capital. The $1.9 billion of after working, we had
$600 million of working capital impacts. We had the rig termination fee, which we took against earnings, but didn't hit
cash, but ended up hitting cash before working capital because it caused a shift in working capital. A similar effect
happened on our restructuring costs. So when we made the comment as we went through the slides, you should think
about that $1.3 billion being more like $1.6 billion. It's taking account of the impact of just those special items.
And as we also pointed out, this was, the third quarter is always a weak cash flow quarter for us because it tends to be
the quarter where we have the most turnaround activity. In this quarter, we had, we lost about 40,000 barrels a day
roughly in our Malaysia, our UK and our Alaska business units, because they are the ones who went through
turnaround. And that is pretty heavily weighted to oil production. When you think about what happens in a turnaround,
you're losing the revenue but you're still keeping all your normal costs, and then you're having the costs associated with
the turnaround itself. So the net margin you're losing when you have a turnaround is pretty high on those barrels.
<Q - Doug Leggate>: That's helpful. Thanks, Jeff.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Thanks, Doug.
Company Name: ConocoPhillips
Company Ticker: COP US
Date: 2015-10-29
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 18
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Scott Hanold of RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.
<Q - Scott Hanold>: Thanks, guys. Just a couple of questions from me as well. A little more specific on some of the
unconventional U.S. resource plays, the Eagle Ford and Bakken. It sounds like at the current activity levels, the
expectation is production's probably going to slide a little bit. Is that true if we remained in this somewhat $45, $50
environment. And kind of more direct, what price would allocate more capital to those areas?
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: If we stay at our current level of rigs in the Eagle Ford and Bakken, we would expect to see
some modest decline. So for example, if we go from this year into next year and we don't increase rigs, we'll see 3% to
5% decline on our production in the unconventionals. We're going through a process of setting our operating plan and
budget for 2016, and we'll give you a lot more detail on what we actually decide to do with that rig count at that time,
but just as a sort of reference, so if we stay at the current rig rate, it will be a 3% to 5% decline in our unconventional
production.
<Q - Scott Hanold>: Okay, I appreciate that. That's good color, and one other thing on I guess the sales goals, Jeff.
Rather than trying to be too specific as far as what you're selling and timing on it, but just specifically can you give us a
broad sense of what really are the goals of these asset sales? Is it cleaning up the portfolio? Is it help bridging a cash
flow deficit to keep the strong dividend? And I guess my point is if commodity prices do eventually improve, does that
become less important to Conoco?
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: It's a combination of those factors. These are predominantly going to be asset sales that we
would be doing regardless of a commodity price environment. If you think about a portfolio of our size, we're always
going to be in the process of trying to find the assets that someone else wouldn't value more highly than we do. So as
we've talked about, it's things like some parts of our North American natural gas portfolio might fit in that category.
The other thing that we think about in terms of asset sales are what assets are just not going to make the cut for us to
fund capital for them, and when someone who might be more willing to fund that capital, would they have a different
value perspective on those. So it's always a bit of a combination, but predominantly these are assets that are going to be
part of any rationalization process in most commodity price environments.
<Q - Scott Hanold>: Understood, appreciate it. Thanks.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Thanks, Scott.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Guy Baber of Simmons. Please go ahead.
<Q - Guy Allen Baber>: Good afternoon, everybody.
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: Hey, Guy.
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: Hello, Guy.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Hello, Guy.
<Q - Guy Allen Baber>: Wanted to dive into the production a little bit, but hoping you could just address the major
project performance, how those projects are ramping up relative to expectations. And specifically if you could just
remind us of the incremental production from those projects, latest view in 2016 and 2017. Just trying to understand
that base level of growth that's coming on as the CapEx begins to decline.
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: Yeah, so the major projects are ramping up. Gumusut is coming in at expectations. We've had
the turnaround there that I mentioned, which has allowed us to get the gas injections established, and so it's ramping up.
It's getting close to full capacity. APLNG is ramping up gas in anticipation of having the LNG plant filled for the first
Company Name: ConocoPhillips
Company Ticker: COP US
Date: 2015-10-29
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 18
stream. Surmont is really just literally just started producing oil in September, and that's going to gradually ramp up
over the next 12 to 15 months. So if you just looked at those three projects alone in aggregate, by 2017, we're probably
looking at 150,000 or so barrels a day of incremental production from those three projects. Maybe 120,000, because
Gumusut is already there, yeah.
<Q - Guy Allen Baber>: That's helpful. Thanks, Matt. And then I wanted to dive into thoughts around capital
allocation and the deepwater portfolio a little bit more, specifically on development capital towards deepwater and
offshore. But do you have flexibility to slow your offshore development CapEx next year, the year after, and is that
something that you would consider in this environment at this point in time?
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: Well I mean yeah, we have announced that we're going to be exiting deepwater exploration,
although we do have quite a significant program that we're executing next year. Development of the discoveries that we
have in deepwater is quite some way off, and we may choose to stay with those developments, but we may choose to
exit before development happens. So really what we're in just now is in a ramping down our exploration commitments
and continuing appraisal on the existing discoveries. We're not at a development stage yet.
<Q - Guy Allen Baber>: Thanks for that.
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: Okay. Thanks, Guy.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Thanks, Guy.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Phil Gresh of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
<Q - Phil M. Gresh>: Yes. Hi. Good afternoon. First question is just on the equity affiliates again. In the oil sands,
your partner on FCCL noted that they're contemplating restarting some of the project phases in 2016 that could add up
to another $500 million in CapEx on the base level spend. So if this happens, the equity affiliate source of cash for you
guys would be lower. And I assume that's not what you're contemplating at this stage, but maybe you could just talk
about where oil sands projects rank in terms of your relative priorities of cash post Surmont to the extent your partner
wants to move forward on those.
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: Yes. So we obviously engage in the budgeting process with our partner there, and that's a
pretty collaborative process. I mean, historically what we've done here is we've funded the additional growth in FCCL
from within the joint venture from cash that's generated within the joint venture rather than taking distributions out.
And those are good projects at Foster and Christina. So we'll have a good discussion at the management committee on
what the right pace is to develop those. But it won't influence distributions per se, because we really haven't been taking
distributions out of FCCL. We've been intending to reinvest in the sort of gradual increase in production as we add
more phases there.
<Q - Phil M. Gresh>: Okay. Yeah, I was referring more to just the expectation moving forward that you will be taking
distributions. I didn't know if more growth would hinder that. Jeff, I don't know if you have a comment on that.
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: At the same time that they're talking about these investments, you have to also keep in mind
that production levels from both Foster Creek and Christina Lake continue to increase. And we've been at a period
where we've had low commodity prices and pretty wide differentials. So the net result has been some pretty weak
realizations, so there's quite a bit of leverage to increases in prices that can happen there as well. You've got what is
probably price increases happening both on the differential and the flat price side and increased production that's going
to provide more capability to fund increased investment as well.
<Q - Phil M. Gresh>: Okay. And my follow-up is just on the production, the increase in the production target for this
year. Would you say that's more of a pull forward on just executing on major capital projects faster, or is it something
that would indicate a sustainably higher growth rate that we should be thinking about for 2016?
Company Name: ConocoPhillips
Company Ticker: COP US
Date: 2015-10-29
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 18
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: This was not really associated with major project acceleration. It's more an indication of the
performance of our base and managing of base decline and the performance that we're getting from our new
development wells across the portfolio as a whole.
<Q - Phil M. Gresh>: Sure, okay. Thank you.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: The turnarounds.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Paul Sankey of Wolfe Research. Please go ahead.
<Q - Paul Sankey>: Hi, guys.
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: Hello, Paul.
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: Hey, Paul.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Hey Paul.
<Q - Paul Sankey>: You've done a tremendous amount this year, as shown on the slides. But when we look at it at let's
say $50 oil this year, you've made about, it looks like a run rate of about $8 billion cash flow. I guess that's obviously
not a fair number. Can you guide us towards what the real run rate will be given what you've achieved?
And secondly, perhaps update us given all the movements on the sensitivities of cash flow to earnings to dollar changes
in the oil price. I'm assuming that they've gone up. Thanks.
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: The sensitivities that we've provided are still pretty close. We'll give you some updated
sensitivities to that in December that will reflect the latest view, but they're not going to be largely different than what
you've seen currently. In December, we'll be giving you a better picture of what 2016 will be looking like in terms of
how to think about costs relative to this year and how to think about capital costs relative to this year. But just overall,
the picture, like we've said, when we look at the balance of cash flow and the proceeds that we're likely to get from
asset sales and we compare that to what we think capital is going to be and the dividend, we see a picture that is very
manageable for us from a balance sheet perspective, in order to get to the point where we get to a cash flow neutrality
balance still in the 2017 timeframe within the capacity that we have on our balance sheet.
<Q - Paul Sankey>: I guess what I'm driving at is that it feels like the price of oil required for that has come down over
the course of the last year.
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: It has, yes.
<Q - Paul Sankey>: Since your last update. I'll go with a follow-up which is related, but you said here that you are in a
phased exit of deepwater exploration. I assume that means that you'll be selling out of positions, and that will form part
of the disposal program that you've talked about, which is very significant, I think $1 billion to $2 billion a year. I
would assume that that's a phased exit which will be a one-way street. Once you've left, you'll be gone. And I would
also anticipate that that would involve selling leases. I know you've got a major position, for example, in the Gulf of
Mexico. Am I heading in the right direction here in terms of how you're looking at this? Thanks.
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: Yes, that's right, Paul.
<Q - Paul Sankey>: Can you just remind us how big your position is in the Gulf of Mexico? Because I know it's...
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: Yes, so in the Gulf we've got about 2.2 million acres in the Gulf and three existing discoveries.
And our intention is to not be doing deepwater exploration by 2017. And those acreage positions that we hold that we
don't intend to drill, we will be marketing those positions.
Company Name: ConocoPhillips
Company Ticker: COP US
Date: 2015-10-29
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 18
<Q - Paul Sankey>: Yeah, understood. And that becomes then, as I said and you agreed, I hope I didn't trap you that
that becomes a one-way street. Effectively over time you're simply leaving the deepwater and won't come back.
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: No, that's right. No, this is a strategic decision to leave, to exit deepwater exploration. That's
exactly right.
<Q - Paul Sankey>: Great, that's very clear. Thanks, guys.
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: Okay.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Thanks, Paul.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Paul Cheng of Barclays. Please go ahead.
<Q - Paul Y. Cheng>: Hey, guys.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Hello, Paul.
<Q - Paul Y. Cheng>: Just I think maybe several months ago that you and Matt talking about to sustain your operation
is about $8 billion, which was down from $9 billion say maybe from last year. So are we still talking about $8 billion
given that you actually accelerate your cost reduction and everything, or that this number is now $7 billion or $7.5
billion?
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: It's hard to talk about that number without some context around what kind of environment
we think we're in. If we had a continuation of the type of environment we've seen today, yes, we do think we would be
talking about a number that was lower than $8 billion, but it's in that same range.
<Q - Paul Y. Cheng>: Okay. And maybe this is for Matt, that you are currently running about 13 rigs, and you're
saying that the third quarter production – the fourth quarter production will be modestly down. So my guess is that
what is the number of rigs that you think you need in order to hold the production flat and what CapEx required that
you have that kind of program?
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: So to keep Eagle Ford production flat probably requires between seven and eight rigs.
Currently we're running six. The Bakken requires closer to five rigs. We're currently running four. So you'd be looking
at maybe three additional rigs to maintain production flat. And if you look at all-in cost, a drill complete who can hook
up and so on, you can use an order of magnitude of $150 million.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Per rig.
<Q - Paul Y. Cheng>: An additional $150 million?
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Rig.
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: No, per rig line per year, so maybe $400 million.
<Q - Paul Y. Cheng>: Okay, perfect. Thank you.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Thanks, Paul.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Roger Read of Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
<Q - Roger D. Read>: Hi, good morning.
Company Name: ConocoPhillips
Company Ticker: COP US
Date: 2015-10-29
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 18
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: Hello, Roger.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Hello, Roger.
<Q - Roger D. Read>: Good morning. I guess to come back around on the Gulf of Mexico or just deepwater in
general, you mentioned earlier on the call that you'd had a further appraisal on Shenandoah. Should we think of the exit
of exploration also including the exit of not yet developed but partially explored?
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: Possibly, but only if we get full value for it. We're willing to stay in our discoveries if that's
what maximizes the value. We haven't made a commitment to exit deepwater per se, but deepwater exploration. But if
we saw full value for those assets, then we'd certainly consider that.
<Q - Roger D. Read>: Okay. And can you give us an idea of what the capital flexibility is once you're away from
deepwater exploration or any other type of exploration you're not planning to do by 2017? And then if I understood
correctly, it doesn't sound like the oil sands necessarily gets incremental CapEx, and we can presume that there's not
another LNG project. So as we look at the total CapEx number as I guess a starting point for when you talk about it in
December, kind of where we can see that CapEx flexibility that could come back into the shale plays in future years.
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: I guess to give you a bit of a preview of the 2016 budget, we expect to spend about $800
million in 2016 in the deepwater exploration and appraisal space. And so that's the order of magnitude on the capital
side that we wouldn't be spending if we weren't doing deepwater exploration and appraisal and for one year. And then
there's the G&G and G&A associated with that as well.
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: And that number Matt noted is a fairly consistent number of what we're spending there in
2015 as well.
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: Yes.
<Q - Roger D. Read>: Okay, thank you.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Thanks, Roger.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Bob Brackett of Sanford Bernstein. Please go ahead.
<Q - Bob Alan Brackett>: Hi, I've got a kind of a high level more philosophic question on the 2016 capital plan ahead
of getting the details. One is simple. What sort of price stick would you be looking at in terms of thinking about your
cash flow from operations next year?
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: We don't have one price stick that we use as we talk about it. We are preparing the company
to deal with low and volatile prices. So we're going to be ready to handle whether we get a continuation of current
prices, whether we get some recovery, that's not really going to be a determining factor in exactly where we set our
capital program.
<Q - Bob Alan Brackett>: Okay. And then how do you prioritize the sources of cash for that program and the sort of
the sinks or the uses of cash? What's the pecking order?
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: So we're going to use cash flow from operations to fund the capital and the dividend. We're
going to have some amount of asset sales proceeds that come in from things that we're currently marketing and other
things that we might market. We will first use the cash that's on our balance sheet. And then to the extent that cash from
operations and asset sales don't fully fund capital and the dividend, we'll be looking to increase debt. I mean it's just the
mechanic of what's going to end up happening for us. And as we said, as we look at the amount of debt that we might
need to raise, even in some continuations of some pretty tough price environments, we feel comfortable that that
capacity exists on our balance sheet, and it really exists within a single-A credit rating as well.
Company Name: ConocoPhillips
Company Ticker: COP US
Date: 2015-10-29
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 18
<Q - Bob Alan Brackett>: Great, thanks.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Thanks, Bob.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Blake Fernandez of Howard Weil. Please go ahead.
<Q - Blake Fernandez>: Folks, good morning. I had two questions, but if I could first just kind of confirm, Ellen. The
December 10 capital update, is that in lieu of the typical Analyst Day we would have in, at April?
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: We're still thinking about all that, but our big concern here is not asking the market to wait
till April to see the details of what our current year plan is. So at this point, you can count on December being a pretty
big update on the company's plans and programs for the year.
<Q - Blake Fernandez>: Okay, thanks. In the past, I believe you've provided some kind of rate of return or breakeven
levels for the major projects including Surmont and APLNG. And seeing how those are two kind of major contributors
near term, I'm just wondering, could you provide us with an update as far as what you think a breakeven price is for oil
where those are actually accretive to net income or earnings per share?
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: I don't have that.
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: Yes, I don't have that off the top of my head.
<Q - Blake Fernandez>: That's fine. Maybe I can follow up with.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: We'll come back to you.
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: We can come back to you on that.
<Q - Blake Fernandez>: Not a problem. I will get back with Sid on that. The last one is just kind of more of a broader
picture question, I guess. I'm just curious if the board ever has a discussion about the shareholder payout. I know you're
very committed to the dividend and you're trying to maintain that shareholder base, but when you look at the stock
trading from the call it mid $80s down into the $50s, is there any consideration whatsoever to maybe shift that ratio
toward maybe a buyback program or even toward capturing M&A opportunities instead of a pure dividend payout?
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: We've been pretty consistent since we started ConocoPhillips as an independent E&P, that
we thought the way to create value in the business was a combination of moderate growth and strong payouts back to
our shareholders in the form of a dividend. We think of a dividend as something that really should only go one
direction. And there can be some variability in the rate at which dividend increases, but the key to a dividend is to have
it be consistent and to grow it over time. So we haven't really had significant discussion to talk about trying to adjust
that dividend. It's an important part of our value proposition. It puts a lot of discipline into the system to have that
dividend. So you've heard us talk about it pretty consistently. You're going to continue to hear us talk about that as a
key component of our value proposition.
<Q - Blake Fernandez>: Okay. Thanks a lot, Jeff.
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: Thanks, Blake.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Neil Mehta of Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
<Q - Neil S. Mehta>: Good afternoon.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Hello, Neil.
Company Name: ConocoPhillips
Company Ticker: COP US
Date: 2015-10-29
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 18
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: Hey, Neil.
<Q - Neil S. Mehta>: So I wanted to start off on the LNG markets. Been a lot of debate and discussion around that.
We've got APLNG coming in here in the next couple of weeks. So any thoughts on the LNG markets broadly? And
then there has been some investor concern around Sinopec and the APLNG contracts. Just any updated thoughts there
and anything you could say that can help investors get comfort around that risk?
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: Clearly the short-term LNG market is pretty weak. Whether you're tied to oil prices or you're
in the spot market, it's a pretty weak price that we're getting for LNG going forward and there's not a lot that we can do
about that. With respect to the Sinopec contract to APLNG, so that's a take-or-pay contract. Sinopec have the right to
divert cargoes within China. We've also given them the right to divert cargoes outside China, but as a take-or-pay
contract and with a price formula that's tied to oil. And we've got no reason to believe that there's any issue with that
contract. Sinopec in fact is a 25% shareholder in APLNG on the upstream project so we don't have any concerns, if
that's what you're indicating, about the sanctity of that contract.
<Q - Neil S. Mehta>: All right, terrific. And then, Jeff, on the operating and CapEx reductions that were announced
relative to the July guidance, can you just help bridge the gap from what are the drivers that get you from $8.9 billion to
$8.2 billion? And then on the CapEx side, from $11 billion to $10.2 billion, where are all the cats and dogs there?
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: We just put it in broad categories for you. We talked about before, it's really the same things
that have brought it down the first increment. It's a mix of kind of what we call macro factors, just continued deflation
out there in the industry and also continued strength of the U.S. dollar lowering both our capital and operating costs in
Canada and Norway and Australia. But it's also, it's about half that and it's about half things that we're doing,
efficiencies that we're forcing through the system, changes that we're making to how we run the company, lower
employee head count numbers. It's really more of the same compared to the reductions that took the first increment of
our guidance down.
<Q - Neil S. Mehta>: That's great. I have one last question from me. You guys have the advantage of seeing the world
when it comes to oil production. Curious on your views on when we're going to see non-OPEC ex-U.S. production
really start to fall off and the decline rates start to materialize which is going to be central to rebalancing these markets.
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: I'm not sure when we're going to see it, but it's going to come, Neil. People are adjusting their
capital programs where they have the flexibility to do that, so that will be things like infill drilling where they have rig
contract flexibility. People are exercising operating cost flexibility too, which means less workovers, less spinning
spares, and so on. So over time, that's going to materialize in the non-OPEC, non-U.S. production. But exactly when
and to what magnitude, it's hard to tell, but it's coming.
<Q - Neil S. Mehta>: All right. Thank you very much, guys.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Thanks, Neil.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Edward Westlake of Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
<Q - Edward George Westlake>: Hey. A couple of quick ones. Disposals, $1 billion to $2 billion, probably there
were some disposals in your prior plan to get to 1.7 million barrels a day. But could you guys give us a sort of maybe
an endpoint kind of impact that it might make as you reshape the outlook?
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: No, in the 1.7 million barrels a day in 2017 that we talked about in April, there was no
assumption of dispositions in that.
<Q - Edward George Westlake>: Okay.
Company Name: ConocoPhillips
Company Ticker: COP US
Date: 2015-10-29
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 18
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: We would make an adjustment when we know exactly what assets are moving out of the
portfolio. And we're not ready, Ed, to give you a number yet, because we don't know exactly which of the mix of assets
that we have on the market are actually going to achieve an acceptable price. But we will give you some more
indication of where that's headed and hopefully in December, but it's too early for us to do that now. And that's one of
the reasons we really don't talk about the dispositions until they're done, until we close, because you can't know exactly
which of the assets that are being considered for sale are actually achieving the price that they need to make it
acceptable for us to sell them.
<Q - Edward George Westlake>: Okay. And then, so I can see how the production and cash flow moving parts move
around with these sort of long-lived assets coming in which lower decline rates, plus obviously some short cycle
production, which you can attack both in conventional and also in shale. But obviously reserve replacement is also
something that people focus. I don't know if you've done any long range work as to if you're spending $8 billion at the
low end as the CapEx drops out, what reserve replacement looks like say 2017 onwards or what are the big sources that
you can actually replace reserves at that point.
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: Well, I mean we have this 44 billion barrel resource base that we've described in some length
in April. The 18 billion of that has less than a $60 cost to supply, so there's lots of sources to continue to convert that
resource base into reserves, and as we go through the next few years. Is that the question you were getting at Ed?
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Okay.
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: So the point is that the converting that resource base over time as we execute our capital
programs is what's going to result in growth in the reserve base.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Ryan Todd of Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
<Q - Ryan Todd>: Okay, thanks. Good afternoon everybody. Maybe if I could talk a little bit about CapEx. The run
rate in the third quarter of $2.2 billion so annualized is an $8.8 billion run rate. How should we think about, and maybe
this is too much preview, but how should we think about moving pieces into 2016? I mean, it's meaningfully down
from the first half of the year. Is that a reasonable run rate going forward? Is there still meaningful long cycle roll-off
out of that number that will be cycled in the short cycle, or has much of that rolling off by this point? Anything on kind
of the puts and takes as we look forward to the 3Q run rate.
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: We still have capital going into major projects that will reduce significantly as we get into next
year. So I think the easiest way to think about it, Ryan, is the $2 billion sort of number that we've been talking about in
terms of the average capital going to major projects this year that's rolling off next year. So I wouldn't get too hung up
on the run rate in the third quarter, but more think about it as that sort of amount of major project capital rolling off
from 2015 to 2016.
<Q - Ryan Todd>: Okay. Thanks. And then I guess a follow-up on a couple of questions ago in terms of the operating
cost reductions. I mean, you've been well ahead of schedule with the $1 billion over two years turning into $1.5 billion
effectively in one year. How much of that, I mean if you think of that $1.5 billion, I mean how much of that is kind of
structural versus cyclical? And as you look forward into 2016, I guess on the cyclical portion, which you have any
thoughts on which way it cycles, and is there more downside to that number going forward?
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: Well, the cyclical part of it is driven primarily by foreign exchange and just deflation that
we've seen in the industry. So to answer your question, you're going to have to answer that in context of a price level.
So if we continue to have weak prices, that's not going to cycle up in a period of weak prices. We probably have a
period of weak prices that may also mean we continue to have a fairly strong U.S. dollar. So I don't know where you
draw the line between cyclical and structural, but if you're thinking about near term, if you're thinking in terms of a
continued weak price environment, we don't really expect those to cycle back. But just in the overall general context,
like we've talked before, we see about half of what's happened as macro factors like deflation and FX, and generally
Company Name: ConocoPhillips
Company Ticker: COP US
Date: 2015-10-29
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 16 of 18
half is things that we're doing within the way we operate the business, which are more structural in nature.
<Q - Ryan Todd>: And do you think there's more to, I guess on the non-cyclical side, is there, do you view there as
being more to go still in 2016? Or have you just pulled forward the lion's share of what you thought you'd be able to
achieve?
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: We've pulled forward a lot of it, but there's still more to come. And we're going to give you the
details in December on that.
<Q - Ryan Todd>: Great. Thanks a lot, gentleman.
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: Thank you, Ryan.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Thanks, Ryan.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
<Q - Evan Calio>: Hi. Good afternoon, guys. Thanks for squeezing me in here at the top of the hour. It's a
philosophical question more on total returns. I know you guys have made significant CapEx cuts and outpacing
deflation. If combined with asset sales, do you view a risk or how do you balance a risk to negative medium or
longer-term production growth, so that the risk is that dividend yield merges with a total shareholder return type of
metric in the future?
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Cash flow growth.
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: I'm not sure if I followed your question, Evan. If you think about it, in the near term we are
going to benefit from capital that we've been investing over the last several years, so that we are going to continue to
have production growth from these major projects that will provide cash flow growth as well. If you do think about a
longer-term lower price environment, then you're in the realm of trying to anticipate what might happen with overall
operating costs in the industry.
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: And then from the asset sales perspective, we're not intending to sell assets that have growing
production and cash flow.
<Q - Evan Calio>: I guess the question, and I will leave it at this, it relates to you're making significant cuts, and the
cuts are driven partially with the commitment to the dividend. At what point are you cutting muscle? I know you've run
a lot of different scenarios, and I believe in the security of the dividend at most prices. But what's the cost as it relates
to those sales and related to the longer-term outlook of either growth or asset value? I'll leave it at that.
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: I think it gets back to a comment that we had earlier about what motivates a lot of the asset
sales. A lot of the asset sales are driven by normal portfolio rationalization. Of course, we generate asset sales proceeds
from that. But if you look back, if you look at what we're selling now, if you look back at what we've historically sold, I
think you can understand why we would think of those as non-strategic assets, which we got better value for by selling
them than we would have had by keeping them inside the portfolio, and that's the main driver for asset sales.
As you think about things like the deepwater decision, that's driven as much by the opportunity that we see in the rest
of our portfolio as it is by thinking about just deepwater on its own. The resource base that we feel like we have and
what are we going to want to prioritize in terms of funding capital is what's been a big driver for that decision.
<Q - Evan Calio>: Great, I'll leave it there. Thanks, guys.
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: We don't feel like we are doing things in this environment which are going to not be
beneficial to the long-term ability to grow production and grow cash flows and grow the dividend.
<Q - Evan Calio>: Got it, thank you.
Company Name: ConocoPhillips
Company Ticker: COP US
Date: 2015-10-29
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 17 of 18
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Thanks, Evan.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from James Sullivan of Alembic Global Advisors. Please go ahead.
<Q - James Sullivan>: Hey, good afternoon guys. Thanks again for sneaking me in, just a quick one here. Obviously
going back to APLNG, I see that the ramp gas is coming up nicely. I also noticed that the equity gas realizations in
Asia-Pacific are dropping. I'm assuming that's because the ramp gas is getting sold at domestic gas prices. Can you
quantify at all if possible, I think you could just maybe use a Q3 constant pricing for this, but what the uplift would be
if that ramp gas is being sold as LNG under your contracts?
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Price of liquid.
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: I don't have that off the top of my head, James. You're right that the ramp gas as we're building
up to fill Train 1 is getting sold at domestic prices essentially. And then the net-back, once we get to LNG will clearly
be a function of the oil prices really at that time because these are linked to JCC. But I don't have that number off the
top of my head.
<A - Jeffrey W. Sheets>: But generally you can think that the price we're receiving for our Australian gas in the
domestic gas market is not any stronger than what we get for what we sell into the North American gas market. So
there's a pretty significant uplift even in the current market, in the current oil price market to move that to LNG.
<Q - James Sullivan>: Right. I guess I was just trying to see whether it was a lot lower or if there was a contractually
lower rate or anything like that, but it sounds like it's maybe just about what you'd expect for domestic. One just quick
last one there, obviously I saw you guys got the go ahead up in Alaska for some of the NPR drilling. Can you guys give
a little update there? I know Greater Mooses Tooth, some of these are longer dated projects, but what the timeframe
and potential impact of some of those projects are? And I'll take it offline after that.
<A - Matthew J. Fox>: We announced that the first production from the NPR-A from the CD-5 project started just a
week or so ago, less than a week ago. We did get approval from the government for the permits that we needed to
develop the GMT1 prospect, so the first prospect inside the Greater Mooses Tooth Unit, and we're working through the
process of deciding the sanction of that project. But that sanction decision hasn't been made yet.
<Q - James Sullivan>: Okay, great. Thanks, guys.
<A - Ellen R. DeSanctis>: Thanks, James.
Operator
Thank you. I will now turn the call back over to the company for closing comments.
Matthew J. Fox
Okay, I would just like to make a couple of closing comments because we all know this is a difficult time for the
industry. But we at ConocoPhillips are focused on what we can control, and that's our production, our capital, and our
operating costs. And as we outlined today, we're moving all those quickly in the right direction. But we're really not
just focused on the short term. When we look at what it's going to take to win in a more cyclical and volatile future, we
think it's a diverse low-decline production base that gives a stable source of funding to sustain the dividend, and we
have that.
Company Name: ConocoPhillips
Company Ticker: COP US
Date: 2015-10-29
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 18 of 18
We think you want a large low cost of supply resource base that provides a balance of flexible short-cycle investment
options so you can scale your growth to higher or lower prices, but also has the lower risk long-term projects so that
can add to a low decline base, and we have that in our portfolio. We also think you need a sustainable low cost
structure to make sure your margins are resilient to lower prices, and you saw today we are taking a lot of action to get
there. We think you need a strong balance sheet so that you can withstand the low phases of the cycle, and we have
that. And then we think that you need to prioritize return of capital to the shareholders to get them a real return and to
instill capital discipline, and that's what we are doing.
So I think that we have the portfolio, the strategy, and the commitment to deliver all of the things that are required for a
company in our industry to win in this more cyclical and volatile future. So thanks for your interest and your questions.
Ellen R. DeSanctis
Thank you everybody, and feel free to call back if you have any follow-ups. Thank you. Thank you, Christine.
Operator
Thank you, and thank you ladies and gentleman. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You
may now disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.