Company Name: H.J. Heinz
Company Ticker: HNZ US
Date: 2014-11-19
Event Description: Q3 2014 Earnings Call
Market Cap: N.A.
Current PX: N.A.
YTD Change($): N.A.
YTD Change(%): N.A.
Bloomberg Estimates - EPS
Current Quarter: 1.045
Current Year: 3.805
Bloomberg Estimates - Sales
Current Quarter: 3053.250
Current Year: 12111.667
Page 1 of 2
Q3 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Paulo Luiz Araújo Basílio
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning. My name is Valerie, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to
welcome everyone to the H.J. Heinz Company Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. This call is being
recorded at the request of the H.J. Heinz Company.
Today's presentation includes forward-looking statements as defined in the U.S. securities laws, which are based on
current expectations, subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances and which are not a guarantee of future
performance. Actual results may differ materially due to a variety of factors, including the risk factors listed in Heinz's
Form 10-KT, which was filed on March 7. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking
statement except as required by law.
Today's remarks will also include non-GAAP financial measures, which are reconciled to GAAP numbers in the third
quarter 2014 Form 10-Q, which was filed by the H.J. Heinz Corporation on November 7. These and other SEC filings
are available on Heinz's website at the Investor Relations page.
I would now like to turn the call over to Paulo Basílio, Executive Vice President and CFO. Mr. Basílio, you may begin
your conference.
Paulo Luiz Araújo Basílio
Thank you. Good morning. Thank you for joining me to review Heinz results for the third quarter of calendar 2014.
Third quarter sales was $2.6 billion, down 2% from last year. Volume decreased by 2.9% primarily in our U.S. frozen
segment, while price increased by 2.4%. Unfavorable foreign currency impacted sales by 0.4%, along with 0.2% from
divestitures.
Adjusted EBITDA, as detailed on page 61 of our 10-Q, increased by 30%, reflecting higher gross margin and lower
SG&A costs across each of our five operating segments. This was driven by efficiencies from productivity initiatives.
I will now briefly cover the third quarter results by segment. Starting with North America, Q3 sales were down 6.4%
versus last year. Volume decreased by 5.5% primarily driven by U.S. frozen meals category softness. Net price was
0.2% lower, reflecting a higher level of promotional activity, while unfavorable Canadian foreign exchange decreased
sales by 0.7%. North America's adjusted EBITDA grew 7.7%.
Turning to Europe, sales were up 0.2% in Q3, driven by favorable foreign exchange of 2.9%. Volume declined by
0.5%, while pricing decreased by 1.4% due to increased promotional activity in the UK and Italy. Sales also decreased
by 0.6% from divestitures. Europe's adjusted EBITDA increased by 43%.
Moving to Asia Pacific, sales decreased in Q3 by 10.6%. This was largely due to a 9.9% volume decline that was
driven by soft cordial sales and the transition for distributor network in Indonesia and product rationalization and
reduced promotional activity in Australia. Favorable pricing added 1.5% but was more than offset by unfavorable
foreign exchange of 2.2%. Asia Pacific adjusted EBITDA grew 15%.
Company Name: H.J. Heinz
Company Ticker: HNZ US
Date: 2014-11-19
Event Description: Q3 2014 Earnings Call
Market Cap: N.A.
Current PX: N.A.
YTD Change($): N.A.
YTD Change(%): N.A.
Bloomberg Estimates - EPS
Current Quarter: 1.045
Current Year: 3.805
Bloomberg Estimates - Sales
Current Quarter: 3053.250
Current Year: 12111.667
Page 2 of 2
In Latin America, Q3 sales increased by 25.6% on price increase of 29.6%, primarily from Venezuela. Volume
decreased by 2.8% while favorable foreign exchange decreased sales by 1.1%. Latin America's adjusted EBITDA
increased by 132%.
Finally, in RIMEA, Q3 sales increased by 9%. Volume expanded by 10.5% reflecting growth across the segment, while
pricing provided a further 3.5% increase. Unfavorable foreign exchange decreased sales by 5.1%. RIMEA's adjusted
EBITDA grew 49%.
On a year-to-date basis, total company sales decreased 2.8% versus the combined predecessor and successor periods
last year. Volume decreased by 3.3%, which was partially offset by favorable pricing of 1.9%. Unfavorable foreign
exchange reduced sales by 1.2% along with 0.2% from divestitures.
Adjusted EBITDA decreased by 32.7%, again reflecting a reduction in cost of products sold and SG&A savings across
all five segments, driven by productivity initiatives.
Year-to-date, we delivered cash flow from operations of $1.3 billion, compared to $475 million last year. Cash used for
productivity and restructuring initiatives was $180 million so far this year, against less than $50 million at this time last
year.
Before I conclude my remarks, I'd like you to note that Heinz recently received the top ranking in the prestigious
American Customer Satisfaction Index, a survey of customer satisfaction among food manufacturers. For the 15th
consecutive year, this recognition is a testament of our core values, including product innovation and always putting the
customer first.
After a solid third quarter, Heinz remains on track to deliver our goals for 2014. We remain committed to driving
efficiencies that will grow our business and maintain Heinz's industry leadership and enduring reputation for quality,
safety and customer satisfaction. Thank you and have a great day.
Operator
Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2014, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.