Company Name: DuPont
Company Ticker: DD US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 11
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Gregory R. Friedman
• Nicholas C. Fanandakis
• Edward D. Breen
• James C. Borel
Other Participants
• Jeffrey J. Zekauskas
• P.J. Juvekar
• Robert Andrew Koort
• Frank J. Mitsch
• David I. Begleiter
• Vincent Stephen Andrews
• Jonas Oxgaard
• Mike Ritzenthaler
• Don Carson
• Jim M. Sheehan
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Welcome to the DuPont Third Quarter 2015 Conference Call. My name is John, and I will be your operator for today's
call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please
note that this conference is being recorded.
Now I will turn the call over to Greg Friedman, Vice President of Investor Relations. Greg, you may begin.
Gregory R. Friedman
Thank you, John. Good morning, everyone and welcome. Thank you for joining us to cover DuPont's Third Quarter
2015 performance. Joining me are Ed Breen, Interim Chair and CEO; Nick Fanandakis, Executive Vice President and
CFO; and Jim Borel, Executive Vice President responsible for our Agriculture and Nutrition & Health segments.
The slides for today's presentation and corresponding segment commentary can be found on our website along with our
news release. During the course of this conference call, we will make forward-looking statements and I direct you to
slide one for our disclaimers. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future are
forward-looking statements. Although they reflect our current expectations, these statements are not guarantees of
future performance but involve a number of risks and assumptions. We urge you to review DuPont's SEC filings for a
discussion of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
We will also refer to non-GAAP measures. We request that you review the reconciliations to GAAP statements
provided with the earnings news release and today's slides, which are posted on our website. For today's agenda, Nick
will review our third quarter financial performance and Ed will provide concluding remarks, followed by your
Company Name: DuPont
Company Ticker: DD US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 11
questions.
With that introduction, it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Nick.
Nicholas C. Fanandakis
Thank you, Greg. Overall, third quarter results were consistent with the update provided on our October 5 call. Our
bottom line continued to benefit from the positive effects of our operational redesign and cost reductions in the quarter,
including lower performance-based compensation. More than offsetting these benefits however, were negative impacts
from currency, challenges in ag markets, particularly in Brazil, and continued weakness in emerging markets and oil
and gas market affecting Safety & Protection. These pressures increase our resolve to continue to deploy disciplined
costs and working capital management to deliver value to our shareholders. Ed and I are working closely with business
and functional leaders on our plan to accelerate and expand our targeted cost savings commitment. We're evaluating all
opportunities to improve costs and working capital performance.
Now let's start with the details of the quarter on slide two. Operating earnings per share were $0.13 versus $0.39 in the
prior year. Segment results declined $0.22 per share in the quarter including a $0.17 per share negative impact from
currency, primarily the Brazilian real. Also negatively impacting the quarter was $0.08 per share from a higher tax rate,
which I will describe in detail in a few moments.
Year-to-date operating earnings per share were $2.49 versus $2.79 in the prior year. Currency negatively impacted
results by $0.53 per share. Excluding the impact of currency, year-to-date operating earnings per share would have
increased by 8%.
Consolidated net sales for the quarter were $4.9 billion, a decline of 17% versus the prior year. Eight percentage points
of that decline were due to currency. The dollar remained strong relative to most other currencies, particularly the
Brazilian real. The challenging ag market in Brazil was the primary driver of the 7% volume decline in the quarter from
lower seed volume and reduced demand for insect control products.
However, in Agriculture, we are progressing well in our limited launch of Leptra corn hybrids for the upcoming
safrinha season with an aggressive ramp-up planned for our 2016 summer season. We did see volume growth in the
quarter in Industrial Biosciences on the increased demand for enzymes and biomaterials.
Turning now to slide three; currency continued to be a significant headwind to segment results in the quarter. Segment
results excluding currency were down $0.05 per share year over year, primarily due to declines in Agriculture,
Performance Materials and Safety & Protection. As I mentioned, a higher tax rate negatively impacted operating
earnings per share in the quarter. Our expected geographic mix of earnings influences our base income tax rate. In the
third quarter, a shift to higher percentage of earnings in the U.S. versus prior year resulted in a significantly higher tax
rate.
Net after-tax exchange gains and losses were also a $0.02 headwind in the quarter. Lower corporate costs and interest
expense provided a $0.06 benefit in the quarter, reflecting disciplined spending and continued productivity. As I noted,
we continue to see the results of our operational redesign benefiting the bottom line.
Turning now to slide four, I'd like to highlight some of the geographic results. As you can see, our geographic mix of
sales continued to shift year over year to a higher percentage of reported sales occurring in the U.S. and Canada. In the
third quarter, the shift was led by the overall decline in sales in Latin America as a result of currency and weakness in
agriculture markets. While the region was down overall due to currency, a highlight in the third quarter was organic
growth in developing EMEA.
Now let's turn to the third quarter segment operating earnings analysis on slide five. As you can see on the slide,
operating earnings growth in the Electronics & Communications, Industrial Biosciences and Nutrition & Health were
more than offset by declines in the remaining segments.
Company Name: DuPont
Company Ticker: DD US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 11
Electronics & Communications' results demonstrated continued productivity and cost reductions. Volume growth in
Tedlar film and consumer electronics was more than offset by competitive pressures impacting Solamet paste. In
Industrial Biosciences, operating earnings grew 24% on strong volume growth, cost reductions and continued
productivity, improving operating margins by 360 basis points. Volume growth was led by solid demand for enzymes
and food, and home and personal care, as well as improved demand for biomaterials.
Nutrition & Health improvement resulted from cost reductions and continued productivity, which more than offset
negative currency. Strong growth in probiotics, ingredient systems and texturants was offset by lower volumes due to
competitive challenges in specialty proteins. Operating margins in this segment improved 160 basis points and have
now grown year over year for nine consecutive quarters.
In Agriculture, near-term conditions remain challenging. Demand for seed and crop protection products, primarily in
Brazil, further weakened in the quarter, impacted by macroeconomic and competitive pressures.
In Brazil, where the planting season is in progress, tighter grower profits and credit are causing growers to be more
cautious in their spending. The seasonal loss in the third quarter was $154 million larger than the prior year, as
improved productivity, cost reductions and higher local price were more than offset by lower volumes, currency and
the impact of the La Porte manufacturing facility shutdown. The shutdown of the La Porte facility impacted operating
earnings for the quarter by about $40 million and on a year-to-date basis, by about $90 million. Our view of the season
in Brazil remains consistent with what we communicated on October 5.
Performance Materials operating earnings were down as cost reductions and continued productivity were more than
offset by negative currency and lower ethylene prices and volume. Average ethylene spot prices were down 60% year
over year and are significantly impacting top line and bottom line segment results.
Third quarter operating earnings for Safety & Protection declined as cost reductions, productivity improvements and
increased demand for Tyvek protective material in medical packaging were more than offset by negative currency,
lower demand from oil and gas and military markets, and higher costs associated with continued operational issues at
our Chambers Works facility. Our team is fully dedicated to resolving these issues.
Lower demand from oil and gas and military markets impacted sales in Nomex thermal apparel, Kevlar high-strength
materials and sustainable solutions offerings.
As a reminder, the slides with segment commentary are posted on the Investor Center website under Events and
Presentations. I encourage you to refer to those slides for further details on segment results, including our expectations
for the fourth quarter.
Turning now to balance sheet and cash on slide six, our free cash flow for the first nine months of 2015 is about even
with last year and reflects our expected seasonal working capital needs. Lower cash earnings were offset by related
improvements in working capital. Consistent with prior years, we anticipate seasonal cash inflow in the fourth quarter.
Net debt at September 30 reflects our novel seasonal pattern of cash flows.
In the quarter, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement to enable our $2 billion share repurchase
commitment for 2015. In the quarter, we received and retired an initial delivery of about 29 million shares, which
represents 80% of our $2 billion commitment. We expect final settlements of the ASR in the fourth quarter. We
estimate that average diluted shares outstanding for the full year will be 900 million shares and about 880 million for
the fourth quarter. Consistent with our previous statements, we expect to return an additional $2 billion to shareholders
through share repurchase in 2016.
On slide seven, we are continuing to execute our operational redesign, which delivered approximately $0.10 of
incremental value in the third quarter and is on track to deliver about $0.40 of incremental savings in 2015. Cost
reductions and continued productivity were key drivers of the results for the quarter, resulting in operating margin
improvement in four of our six operating segments, invisible in an over $150 million reduction in selling, general and
administrative and R&D costs versus our prior year.
Company Name: DuPont
Company Ticker: DD US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 11
DuPont remains committed to our dividend. Last week, we announced our 445th consecutive quarterly dividend since
1904. Our intent is to continue to grow our dividend in line with future operating earnings growth.
On slide eight, we are reaffirming our outlook for 2015 operating earnings per share of approximately $2.75, reflecting
continued strengthening of the U.S. dollar versus currencies in emerging markets, weak agricultural markets primarily
in Brazil, and continued weakness in emerging markets. Our guidance assumes a full-year currency impact of $0.72 per
share. Excluding the impact of currency, the outlook for full-year operating earnings per share, including benefits from
share repurchase and cost savings, represents a 3% increase year over year. For the full year, we continue to expect our
base tax rate to be about 22% based on our anticipated geographic mix of earnings and the assumption of the
reenactments of the U.S. tax extenders in the fourth quarter.
With that, let me turn the call over to Ed.
Edward D. Breen
Thank you, Nick, and good morning, everyone. This is my first DuPont earnings call, and I am honored to have been
selected to lead this great company during this period. My immediate priority is to guide DuPont successfully through
the current challenging time to assure we can capitalize fully on our next phase of growth and innovation. DuPont is a
great company with many competitive advantages. The company has made huge progress through a broad
transformation over several years, but we have a lot more work to do. The increasingly challenging environment of the
past few months clearly presents new hurdles, and my immediate priority is to guide DuPont successfully through this
period.
Since I took on the role of Interim Chair and CEO on October 16, we've been taking a hard look at our cost structure,
our working capital performance and our capital spending. While it is too early in our process to share a specific plan
and metrics, we see opportunities for further improvement in all three areas, and we are working quickly with a sense
of urgency. We will finalize these plans in the fourth quarter.
Cost is one of the biggest levers we can control. We can't precisely predict how long pressures from currency, ag
challenges, reduced global industrial production and a slowdown in emerging markets may continue. But as we
aggressively address the fundamentals: costs, working capital performance and capital spending, we will assure that our
cost actions will result in a significant net benefit to the bottom line. We are looking at every investment to ensure that
we maximize our returns. This increased rigor will also improve our cash position and ultimately enable us to emerge
even stronger.
For me, this deep dive is an essential first step to developing the right plan to deliver a sustainable improvement in
shareholder value. There is more than one route to long-term shareholder value, and each situation is unique. I have
always looked at each situation with an open mind and a commitment to effective decision making, based on the
specific facts and circumstances. At General Instrument, I drove an organic growth strategy over many years. Tyco was
a very different situation that required a focus on cost efficiencies, restructuring and divestitures. As I have said before,
I will work with the board and management team to carefully determine the best way to create greater sustainable value
for our shareholders.
As we do this work, I have been struck by how seriously the entire team takes its responsibilities to our shareholders
and how much this team wants to win. That's why I'm confident we will deliver. Now let me turn it back to Greg.
Gregory R. Friedman
Thanks Ed. We'll now open the line for questions. John?
Q&A
Company Name: DuPont
Company Ticker: DD US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 11
Operator
Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions] And our first question is from
Jeff Zekauskas from JPMorgan.
<Q - Jeffrey J. Zekauskas>: Hi, good morning. Ed, I was wondering, as interim CEO, are you a candidate to be a
non-interim CEO? Or are you not a candidate?
<A - Edward D. Breen>: Jeff, look, the board is going through a process as we speak. I don't think that process will be
much longer. I will say the board knows that I am fully engaged. I have been around for three weeks. I've been working
seven days a week on DuPont. And I just talked to the board at the end of the week, told them how excited I am, that I
see more opportunity than when I arrived just three weeks ago, and we're going to get to it and start getting some things
done.
<Q - Jeffrey J. Zekauskas>: And for my follow-up is really a question about your Safety & Protection business. That
business fell very, very sharply in the third quarter. And I think you expect it to be relatively flat in the fourth. But
business conditions in oil and gas probably are not so different. So what is the lever that will make the third quarter
level of profits rise so sharply in the fourth quarter?
<A - Nicholas C. Fanandakis>: Yeah, Jeff. Let me answer that. This is Nick. When you look at the third-quarter, let's
just clear the deck on that one, the currency was a part of that. You had about six points of the drop that occurred in
S&P was related to currency. As you look at the market space, military market was lighter than anticipated, and the
demand being off there impacted the Kevlar business. Oil and gas prices did impact several businesses within S&P, not
only the Nomex business but also our Safety Solutions business as well. And then we also had some operating
problems at Chambers Works that impacted the quarter as well.
As we go forward into the fourth quarter, we do see those operating issues being addressed and we also see some of the
military market tenders picking up as well.
<Q - Jeffrey J. Zekauskas>: Great; thank you so much.
Operator
Our next question is from P.J. Juvekar from Citi
<Q - P.J. Juvekar>: Yes, hi. Good morning.
<A - Nicholas C. Fanandakis>: Morning.
<Q - P.J. Juvekar>: A question on Pioneer. Pioneer has always lagged in trait development. Would you be willing to
take a view that finance should focus on seeds, in-licensing all the traits and stop spending on trait R&D?
<A - James C. Borel>: Hey, P.J. This is Jim Borel. First of all, I think it's important for us to be able to have some
discovery effort of our own, but we're very open to also in-licensing and we've certainly in-licensed a number of traits
over the years. And we end up using the tools of biotechnology in a lot of different aspects of our research effort, not
just around trait discovery but we've developed a real competitive advantage around trait introgression and getting a
final product that combines trait genetics and traits that perform well in the field. So we think our investment in biotech
research, as it's deployed, makes sense.
<Q - P.J. Juvekar>: Think you. And question for Ed. Ed, there's a debate out there whether industrial economy in the
U.S. is in a recession or not. DuPont sells [indiscernible] (21:40) products into different industrial end markets. Was
wondering where you stand on the debate. Thank you.
<A - Edward D. Breen>: Well, look. Things have clearly softened up. You just look at every industrial company that's
reported this quarter. Having said that, I don't think things are in any draconian situation. I think it's just a low-growth
Company Name: DuPont
Company Ticker: DD US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 11
to no-growth environment across some of the industrial spaces. So that's fine. We can operate well in that environment
if we do the right things at our end that we need to do, and then when things pick up, that's great for everybody. But no,
I don't see a disaster out there by any means, but I think we're in a zero growth environment when you pull all the
pieces together, and that's fine. There's a lot we can do that's in our control.
Operator
And our next question's from Bob Koort from Goldman Sachs
<Q - Robert Andrew Koort>: Thank you. Good morning. Ed, I was wondering if you might have any perspective. A
lot of [indiscernible] (22:43) I hear from investors is around the returns on your overall R&D investment, and I'm just
curious if you've got any thoughts or strategies on how you guys might better relate successes or failures or returns on
that pretty substantial R&D spend every year.
<A - Edward D. Breen>: Yeah, look. I think overall, this is one of the three key areas I've been digging into very
significantly. I think we can have a better rigor around our return metrics across all of our products and platforms and
programs that we're working on. So we're clearly instituting that. So I don't just highlight that through R&D. I think
that's across the board on how we spend on CapEx, and certainly R&D is a big piece of that, but it's across the board. I
think more rigor around and in R&D is needed. Having said that, R&D is one of the great strengths of this company,
but more rigor around that and that process I think could be very helpful for us, and we're starting to put some more of
that in place.
<Q - Robert Andrew Koort>: Great. Thank you.
<A - Edward D. Breen>: Yep.
Operator
Our next question is from Frank Mitsch from Wells Fargo Securities.
<Q - Frank J. Mitsch>: Good morning, gentlemen. Hey, Ed, a lot has been written and speculated that your
appointment may be signaling that the company would be broken up by -written and speculated by others, I should say.
And I'm just trying to get a sense from you, given the fact you've been on the board now nine months, how do you
think about the debate in terms of the fit of ag inside of the broader DuPont portfolio?
<A - Edward D. Breen>: Well, look, that's why I highlighted my prior career. I've had two very distinct paths that we
created significant value with both. One happened o be a split up that obviously worked very well. The other one was
not a split-up at all. It was a growth strategy with the assets that we had that also worked extremely well. So I come in
with a very open mind.
Having said that, I'm not naïve about what's going on in the ag space right now. I do think at some point there's
consolidation here that'll occur. You saw some other announcements just this week from others. So we need to be very
cognizant of that. And clearly, let me just say it this way: We will do what's right for our shareholders no matter what
form factor that takes. If we have something that will create significant value for our shareholders moving forward, we
will seriously be looking at it.
<Q - Frank J. Mitsch>: All right, great. That's helpful. And obviously, yes, speaking of ag, obviously it is a very
difficult ag environment with virtually every large company opining on how difficult it is. How should we think about
it in 2016? There's been a lot written about crop protection chemical inventories and so forth. Are we set up for another
difficult year, and in fact one that's likely to be lower than 2015 as some others have speculated?
<A - James C. Borel>: Frank, this is Jim Borel. I think the way I'd say that is we're certainly taking a cautious view of
2016. We're not expecting a big market recovery overnight. But we'll talk more about the 2016 outlook when we get
ready to talk about the 2016 plan.
Company Name: DuPont
Company Ticker: DD US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 11
<Q - Frank J. Mitsch>: All right. I will stay tuned. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from David Begleiter from Deutsche Bank
<Q - David I. Begleiter>: Thank you. Good morning. Ed, in your brief time as CEO and longer time as board member,
what do you think DuPont does well? And what do you think DuPont does not as well?
<A - Edward D. Breen>: Again, you know I love that question. There's so many great things here and I've told the
employees that, that we're really working off a very solid foundation. First of all, I've been in many companies, and the
one thing I can say is that the employees are really dedicated. As I said in my prepared comments, they want to win. So
there's a great spirit here and a great drive, and you can't make up for that. I've been in other situations where that's not
the case. I think there's two other pillars I would mention. Obviously this is a great science and R&D company and a lot
of great things come through that. And this company is also very focused on its customers with an extensive global
sales force that really is very impressive. So that's a great foundation to have.
The areas where I think there's improvement needed are more operational, at this point in time anyway, especially with
the environment we're in. I think there's a nice opportunity on the cost side. This company has an overhead structure, all
costs from everywhere is about $7 billion. That's R&D, that's sales, that's marketing, it's G&A expense, it's corporate
expense. That's a big number. And there's ways to strategically reduce that, more so on the G&A side by the way,
because what we don't want to do is we don't want to hurt at all our growth potential and volume potential over time.
So that's what we're working our way through. That clearly needs improvement. And I felt that way, by the way, as a
board member, and now certainly kind of confirming that my first few weeks here.
I also think from a CapEx standpoint we've been spending about $1.5 billion a year. I think that number is too high. We
pretty much zeroed in on what our number's going to be for 2016. I will hold off on that until we give some more
guidance on 2016, but we've worked our way through that nicely. And by the way, that gets back to a rigor around
returns on invested capital and what programs really make sense, which ones are marginal. And we're going to do the
ones that have great returns with them.
And then I'd say the other area where there's improvement needed is working capital. If you look at DuPont right now,
and if you just took the metrics we had last year of working capital versus the deterioration we've had this year, there
would be an additional $500 million coming our way in cash. And that would be just a benchmark to our last year
performance. If you look at benchmarking the best of the peers, there's a much larger opportunity than the $500
million, and that's what we're going get at also.
<Q - David I. Begleiter>: Very good. And Jim, just for you on the upcoming ag consolidation, how do you see it
playing out? And maybe of the big six that exist today, what's a number that we get going forward? Is it three? Is it
four? What are your thoughts on how it plays out?
<A - Edward D. Breen>: This is Ed. Let me take a cut at that. Look, who knows how fast it happens? But you've seen
all the activity of the last six months, and one of the other ag players just this week saying they're looking at what they
would do with their ag business. And I'd also say one of them said everyone's talking to everyone. That's a true
statement. And we are also – I am personally talking to the CEOs of some of the other companies. So something will
give here on the ag side, and I would say just looking at it, consolidation should happen. So clearly we will make sure
we have our nose in the tent to see if there's anything that makes great sense for our shareholders.
<Q - David I. Begleiter>: Thank you very much.
Operator
Our next question is from Vincent Andrews from Morgan Stanley.
Company Name: DuPont
Company Ticker: DD US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 11
<Q - Vincent Stephen Andrews>: Thanks, and good morning. Can I just ask a follow-up on some of these ag
consolidation questions? It sounds like, Ed, you're intimating that you'd actually be a seller of ag in the event that there
was a compelling value proposition for shareholders versus keeping it. Is that a correct statement?
<A - Edward D. Breen>: Yeah, well let me answer it this way: We will do what's right for our shareholders, to create
value for them that's lasting value. Not for some overnight pop, but something that creates long-term value for our
shareholders. We certainly have a fiduciary responsibility to look at as a management team and a board, and we will do
that.
<Q - Vincent Stephen Andrews>: Okay. I appreciate that clarity. If I could just ask, on the La Porte costs, you said
$90 million year to date and it sounds like there are going to be some incremental costs in the fourth quarter. Can you
give us a sense of how that's going to flow into 2016? Do you have any sense on when you might be able to restart that
facility? Or should we just be carrying through it sounds like maybe $120 million of costs into next year?
<A - James C. Borel>: Yeah, this is Jim Borel. We're working with the regulatory agencies. Various agencies are
involved, and that's really the pacing item and so it's difficult to say exactly when it'll start up, but I can tell you that as
soon as all the actions are taken, we'll be ready to start up as quickly as that's all clear. But certainly you're right, we
expect the impact to continue at least through the fourth quarter and then we'll see where we go after that.
One good thing is, we continue to see demand in the marketplace for the products that we would make there and so we
expect once we can start up, for things to spring back really quickly.
<Q - Vincent Stephen Andrews>: But there's no volumetric hit from the plant shutdown?
<A - James C. Borel>: Well, the products that we were making there, yeah, have been part of the negative impact on
sales and crop protection. Was that your question? There was volume that we lost as part of that.
<Q - Vincent Stephen Andrews>: Thank you.
Operator
And our next question is from Jonas Oxgaard from Bernstein.
<Q - Jonas Oxgaard>: Hi. A question for you, Ed. When you're looking at the company five years from now, having
done all cost cutting and all the improvements in R&D and everything, where do you see growth really being reignited?
Are you thinking of basically taking the DuPont that is today and supercharging it? Or are you thinking of other areas
to add on like DuPont has done in the past?
<A - Edward D. Breen>: Hey Jonas, it's probably too early for me to comment on that. But look, the time I've been
here I think there's a lot of great growth opportunity, the least of which is ag coming back here at some point. We are
sort of like everyone counting on a softer 2016. But when you look at ag and nutrition, it's almost kind of half the
company, and we're in the bottom of the down cycle right now, or hopefully close to it. So clearly there's a big
opportunity there. And everyone sees that.
I've done operating reviews with all the businesses. I think they have great growth plans. We are continuing those
growth plans. We are funding them. I've been pretty clear that when we look at our cost cuts, we're not looking at
stopping the projects at all that will be part of our future to grow the business. Are looking much more surgical and
strategic where we can get, let's say a little bit of slop out of the system. So I think we have great opportunities across
all of our businesses and we're not going to impinge on that growth opportunity as we go through some downsizing and
streamlining.
<Q - Jonas Oxgaard>: And as a follow-up on that, are there pieces that you're looking at not fitting in the DuPont
portfolio at this point?
Company Name: DuPont
Company Ticker: DD US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 11
<A - Edward D. Breen>: Yeah, look, we're doing a strategic review, obviously, of the company paralleled with my
comments on all the cost, the CapEx, working capital, the operating performance of the company. We actually just had
a board meeting at the end of last week. We spent a lot of time on strategy, and I won't comment past that, but we're
very engaged on that side.
Operator
And our next question is from Mike Ritzenthaler from Piper Jaffray.
<Q - Mike Ritzenthaler>: Hi, yes, good morning. Wonder if we could back up for a moment on some of the cost
efficiency work, since the original operational redesign initiatives are starting to overlap with some of these fresh
programs. What's the expected run rate that will compare – the expected run rate in 2015 that will compare to the $1.3
billion run rate at the end of 2016?
<A - Edward D. Breen>: Well, I think I understand the question. At the end, when we come out with a new program,
which we will have done in the fourth quarter, that will be the amount, incremental amount, that we are going to
capture during 2016 that will be off the baseline of where we end 2015. So when we talk to you about that, you'll
clearly understand where the numbers ended for 2015. And what we communicate to you will be the number that will
be the cost opportunity we will be addressing during 2016.
<Q - Mike Ritzenthaler>: Okay. I think that makes sense.
<A - Edward D. Breen>: Let me clarify that. The number at the end of this year is $1 billion from the first fresh start
program is where we will end up. So it'll be off of that base.
<Q - Mike Ritzenthaler>: Yep, okay. I think I have that clearly.
And just a question on ag, maybe more for Jim, I guess. But, as challenging as that market has been, I guess Pioneer's
competitors have been recently pounding their chests about market share gains in corn. And is that at Pioneer's
expense? Or is it domestic genetics? And then I guess maybe as a subtlety in there, are there particular products? I
guess the Leptra product is one that is coming out next year or expected to grow significantly in 2016. But are there
other particular products coming to Brazil to shore up that market share?
<A - James C. Borel>: Yeah, so first of all, in North America we held market share in corn, so the team did a great job
in the season, plus the farmers saw great results from the new products and hybrids that we were bringing out last year.
So we've got a strong position there.
As it relates to Brazil, the issue we've had down there has been Herculex resistance that we've talked about before. And
as you mentioned, Leptra starts to come in in a limited way in the safrinha market with an expected rapid ramp in the
summer season next year. And that, we think, is going to help restore our competitive position, because that product is
on top of some very strong genetics that we have already down there. We're optimistic about getting back into that
market in a strong way.
Operator
And our next question is from Don Carson from Susquehanna Financial.
<Q - Don Carson>: Yes, Ed, a question going back to the portfolio. In the past, DuPont's justify having this very
diversified portfolio because there were ostensibly links between the different businesses on the R&D side. Do you see
those links as justifying the diverse portfolio?
<A - Edward D. Breen>: Well, I do see those links. I spent a half a day two weeks ago over at our main R&D lab, our
experimental station. There is a lot of work going on. I'd say it's cross pollinating. So no, I clearly see that. And that's a
great thing. I'll go back to my original comment, though: you just never know where there's opportunity to create value,
Company Name: DuPont
Company Ticker: DD US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 11
and you just have to assess those things against what other opportunity might arise, and always answer what's the best
thing for our shareholders. And that's how we'll look at things. But clearly there is linkage and there's some very
impressive work going on there.
<Q - Don Carson>: Then as a follow-up, just on the dividend, prior to the Chemours spin, DuPont was paying about
$1.7 billion annually. You allocated $400 million of that to Chemours which clearly was above what they could sustain
at the bottom of the cycle and they since cut. So effectively, if you're DuPont holder, you've seeing a significant cut in
your dividend if you've held both stocks. Any plans to rectify that on the part of DuPont and return yield back to close
to what it was?
<A - Edward D. Breen>: [indiscernible] (39:50), Don, we're not going to address our dividend at our end based on
what Chemours did. We will make our own independent decision. We're two separate companies, and we'll base our
decisions on our own analysis at this end.
Operator
And our next question is from [indiscernible] (40:19) from RBC Capital Markets.
<Q>: Yeah, thanks for taking my question. Just wanted to understand a little bit more on the commentary in the release.
So, when you say more focus on capital allocation and cost reductions, and you also noted that the opportunity may be
bigger than when you were on the board. Can you quantify what that could be? Is it $200 million, $300 million more to
the $1.3 billion that you've outlined? Or it could be even greater than that?
<A - Edward D. Breen>: Well, there's still more cost reduction happening during the quarter we're in right now. So
you should count on that occurring as we've communicated. That gets you to a run rate savings on all our fresh start of
the $1 billion. So that is continuing. And then in the fourth quarter, we will be communicating with you about our
future plans on cost reduction. At that point in time, we will size what that opportunity is, and again, that opportunity
will be something we will accomplish in 2016. It won't be a multiyear. It'll be what we're going to accomplish in 2016.
<Q>: Okay. And I guess just as a follow-up, do you foresee a lot of other changes either in management or in head
count in order to affect some of that increased cost reduction? Thanks.
<A - Edward D. Breen>: Well look, as I said some of that cost reduction will come from the G&A line. So you can
take that how you want. That's clearly an area we need to streamline in the company. In fact a lot of corporate America
has been streamlining in that area because again, that's not affecting your growth within your customer focus and your
R&D engine. So a higher portion of it will obviously come from areas like that.
<A - Gregory R. Friedman>: John, we're ready for the last question.
Operator
And it's from Jim Sheehan from SunTrust. Please go ahead.
<Q - Jim M. Sheehan>: Thank you. You commented on some weakening in the consumer electronics markets where
you're seeing a little bit of a slowdown. I understand some of that's in China. Could you just give some more color on
consumer electronics end markets, where you're seeing that, and did that continue in October?
<A - Nicholas C. Fanandakis>: Yeah, this is Nick. Jim, when you look at Electronics & Communications, consumer
electronics was actually a strength in the quarter, as was our Tedlar film business in the PV. Where the drop-off
occurred was in the Solamet paste, also in the PV industry and largely serviced in A-P, specifically, China region.
That's where the greatest year-over-year decline occurred within the business.
<Q - Jim M. Sheehan>: And with respect to your Nutrition & Health segment, I was wondering if you could give us
some broader comments on when you expect to reach your longer-term targets in that business.
Company Name: DuPont
Company Ticker: DD US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 11
<A - Nicholas C. Fanandakis>: For the Nutrition & Health business, it's been making very consistent progress, and
we expect that to continue. I think it's, what, the ninth quarter of expanding margins. So the business is growing faster
than the market. We expect that to continue indefinitely, and they've got a lot of room for continued margin expansion
over the foreseeable future. I'm not going to predict a plateau. We're expecting continued progress.
<Q - Jim M. Sheehan>: Great.
Operator
This concludes the Q&A portion of the call and I will turn it back over to Greg Friedman for closing remarks.
Gregory R. Friedman
Great. Well, thank you very much for joining our third quarter earnings call. If you have any further questions, feel free
to reach out to the Investor Relations team and we look forward to connecting with you again as we close the year.
Operator
Thank you ladies and gentlemen. That concludes today's call. Thank you for participating. And you may now
disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.