Company Name: Biogen Inc
Company Ticker: BIIB US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 14
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Ben Strain
• George A. Scangos, Ph.D.
• Alfred W. Sandrock Jr., M.D., Ph.D.
• Paul J. Clancy
Other Participants
• Mark J. Schoenebaum
• Matthew K. Harrison
• Geoffrey Meacham
• Ying Huang
• Eric Thomas Schmidt
• Terence C. Flynn
• Matt M. Roden
• Cory W. Kasimov
• Brian C. Abrahams
• Chris J. Raymond
• Joseph P. Schwartz
• Brian P. Skorney
• Tom Schrader
• Michael J. Yee
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning. My name is Chris, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome
everyone to the Biogen Third Quarter 2015 Financial Results and Business Update. All lines have been placed on mute
to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks, there'll be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Ben Strain, Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.
Ben Strain
Thank you, and welcome to Biogen's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. Before we begin, I encourage
everyone to go to the Investors section of biogen.com to find the press release and related financial tables, including a
reconciliation of the GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures that we'll discuss today. Our GAAP financials are
provided in tables one and two; table three includes a reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP financial results. We
believe non-GAAP financial results better represent the ongoing economics of our business and reflect how we manage
the business internally. We have also posted slides on our website that follow the discussions related to this call.
Company Name: Biogen Inc
Company Ticker: BIIB US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 14
I would like to point out that we'll be making forward-looking statements, which are based on our current expectations
and beliefs. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, and our actual results may differ materially.
I encourage you to consult our SEC filings for additional detail.
On today's call I'm joined by our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. George Scangos; Dr. Al Sandrock, our Chief Medical
Officer; and our CFO, Paul Clancy. I'll now turn the call over to George.
George A. Scangos, Ph.D.
Okay. Thank you, Ben, and good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. Third quarter was marked by
significant progress across several key areas. We delivered 11% revenue growth and 18% non-GAAP EPS growth as
we continued to see modest patient growth across the portfolio.
We have several important developments in our pipeline. We initiated enrollment for Phase 3 clinical program for
aducanumab in Alzheimer's disease; we announced Phase 3 results for TYSABRI in secondary progressive MS, which
Al will cover in more detail later in the call; and we continued to strengthen our pipeline by announcing an agreement
to exclusively license MT-1303 from Mitsubishi Tanabe.
On the commercial front, we remained committed to improving our commercial trajectory, with a particular emphasis
on TECFIDERA. Our market research continues to indicate that prescribers believe TECFIDERA has a very strong
benefit risk profile. However, patient growth in the U.S. and Germany remains challenging, and we're actively working
to improve this dynamic. We've increased sales calls for TECFIDERA as we continue to educate physicians on
TECFIDERA's strong efficacy and favorable safety profile and its label and monitoring requirements. We've also
increased our direct-to-consumer marketing in the U.S., including a recently launched television campaign that some of
you may have seen.
We also made significant progress on capital allocation. Through yesterday, we returned approximately $3.9 billion to
our shareholders through the repurchase of our common stock. Importantly, Biogen still retains strategic flexibility to
support both continued business development and potentially larger scale acquisitions. We remained focused on
strengthening and expanding our early-stage pipeline through tuck-in acquisitions and collaborations, a strategy that
has produced assets such as TECFIDERA, ELOCTATE, ALPROLIX, aducanumab, ISIS-SMNRx and raxatrigine.
We're actively looking for late-stage and commercial assets, which have the potential to add both strategic value and
near-term revenue growth while maintaining financial discipline.
Today, we also announced the corporate restructuring that we believe will best position the company to achieve our
strategic priorities. This decision to reduce our workforce was extremely difficult, and we're very thankful for the hard
work and contributions of our talented colleagues and friends.
As part of our effort to focus on key commercial initiatives and high potential pipeline candidates, we've also made the
decision to discontinue several pipeline programs that includes TECFIDERA in secondary progressive MS as well as
certain programs in immunology and fibrosis research, including anti-TWEAK.
Importantly, we plan to reinvest the savings from this restructuring into key commercial initiatives and a number of
prioritized programs across our emerging, mid- and late-stage pipeline including commercial initiatives aimed at
increasing sales of marketing therapies, including new direct-to-consumer marketing programs for TECFIDERA, the
advancement of aducanumab BAN2401 and E2609 for Alzheimer's disease, anti-LINGO for multiple sclerosis,
ISIS-SMNRx for spinal muscular atrophy, our recently acquired asset from Convergence, raxatrigine, for trigeminal
neuralgia and other pain indications, and MT-1303 for inflammatory bowel disease and other autoimmune diseases.
And with that, I'll turn the call over to Al for an update on R&D.
Alfred W. Sandrock Jr., M.D., Ph.D.
Company Name: Biogen Inc
Company Ticker: BIIB US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 14
Thanks, George. We had important clinical study readouts and good progress advancing a new generation of mid and
late-stage clinical programs. This morning we reported top-line results from the Phase 3 ASCEND study for TYSABRI
in secondary progressive MS. The objective of ASCEND was to determine whether TYSABRI had an impact on
slowing disability progression unrelated to relapses in patients with SPMS. Most patients that enrolled in ASCEND had
non-relapsing SPMS and had EDSS scores of 6.0 to 6.5. ASCEND did not achieve its primary or secondary endpoints,
and we do not intend to file for label expansion. We are disappointed in these results as SPMS is a serious condition
with no effective therapies.
ASCEND study results did demonstrate that TYSABRI had a robust impact on relapses and MRI measures of disease,
consistent with its known clinical profile in relapsing MS. Study results also indicated that TYSABRI had a statistically
significant effect on upper limb function measured by the nine-hole peg test-hole peg test, which was a component of
the composite primary endpoint. Full study results will be reported at a future medical meeting.
Moving on to our other MS development programs. At the ECTRIMS meeting earlier this month we presented an
additional analysis from RENEW, a Phase 2 study that evaluated anti-LINGO in patients with acute optic neuritis, the
top-line results of which we reported earlier this year. About half the patients in RENEW underwent multifocal visual
evoked potential testing, a method that allows us to record electrical responses produced in the occipital cortex upon
stimulation of small segments within the retina.
First, we found that anti-LINGO had an effect on the recovery of the multifocal VEP amplitude recorded by stimulating
the eye that was affected by the optic neuritis. Interestingly, we also found that anti-LINGO treatment preserved the
multifocal VEP amplitude recorded by stimulating the opposite eye, which was seen to be deteriorating in the placebo
group likely due to lesions developing in the visual system as a result of some of these patients being in the early stages
of MS.
We believe that these results further support our previously reported findings and provide evidence that anti-LINGO
may have neuro-protective properties.
We continue to expect top-line results from the Phase 2 SYNERGY study in MS in mid-2016.
Turning to ZINBRYTA, The New England Journal of Medicine has just published the results of the ZINBRYTA Phase
3 DECIDE study. In DECIDE, ZINBRYTA demonstrated a compelling 45% improvement in annualized relapse rate
compared to interferon therapy. If approved, we believe ZINBRYTA could be an important new therapeutic option for
relapsing MS patients.
At ECTRIMS, Roche presented positive Phase III results in both relapsing and primary progressive MS for
ocrelizumab, a product in which we have a business interest. Results from two Phase 3 studies in relapsing MS showed
a 46% and 47% reduction in annualized relapse rate compared to interferon therapy.
Ocrelizumab also demonstrated a significant role in the treatment of primary progressive MS, a serious
neurodegenerative condition for which there are no approved therapies. If approved, it would be wonderful to be able to
offer these patients a meaningful new therapy.
Turning to our hemophilia therapies, ELOCTA, which is the approved European trade name for ELOCTATE obtained
a positive recommendation from the CHMP as a therapy for Hemophilia A. If approved in the EU, ELOCTA would be
commercialized there by our collaborator Sobi.
At the 2015 National Hemophilia Foundation Meeting, new ALPROLIX data showed a beneficial long-term safety and
efficacy profile in patients with Hemophilia B. Favorable long-term clinical results for ELOCTATE treatment of
patients with Hemophilia A were also recently published.
Moving to the aducanumab Phase 3 program for patients with early Alzheimer's disease, we have initiated clinical sites
in both the EMERGE and ENGAGE studies and the first study subjects have now been enrolled. We are pleased to
have received FDA agreement on a Special Protocol Assessment on the aducanumab Phase 3 study protocols. We have
previously reported that ARIA or amyloid-related imaging abnormality was the most significant adverse event
observed in the aducanumab Phase 1B study. All patients currently enrolling in the Phase 3 studies of aducanumab are
Company Name: Biogen Inc
Company Ticker: BIIB US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 14
undergoing dose titration in an effort to mitigate the risk of ARIA. Preliminary data from the Phase 1B study suggests
that dose titration does seem to reduce the incidence of ARIA, although these findings will need to be confirmed with
further study.
We continue to obtain additional clinical data from the Phase 1B study and we anticipate discussing these results at a
scientific meeting in the second half of next year.
We have made progress in expanding our development pipeline by acquiring the rights to MT-1303, a Phase 3 ready
program with potential in multiple autoimmune diseases. At the recent ECTRIMS meeting, Mitsubishi Tanabe
presented compelling results from a 415-patient Phase 2 study in MS. Results demonstrated that MT-1303 did not
cause a decrease in heart rate with administration of the first dose even without dose titration. This characteristic of the
molecule may serve to eventually differentiate it from other S1P modulators. We anticipate deal completion in the
fourth quarter and we intend to initiate Phase 3 studies in inflammatory bowel disease as soon as possible next year.
We continue to evaluate potential further development in MS.
Progress has also been made with several early-stage programs. BIIB061, an oral treatment being developed as a
potential reparative therapy for MS has successfully completed Phase 1 studies. We recently initiated a Phase 1 study
for BIIB054, a monoclonal antibody targeting alpha Synuclein which is being developed as a potential disease
modifying therapy for Parkinson's disease. The target of BIIB054 alpha Synuclein is a major component of Lewy
bodies, a pathologic hallmark of Parkinson's disease.
R&D continues to make good progress advancing a next wave of therapies and development candidates. Next year, we
anticipate the approval of ZINBRYTA for relapsing MS. We also intend to initiate a number of clinical studies
including a Phase 3 study of MT-1303 in IBD, a Phase 3 study for raxatrigine for trigeminal neuralgia, as well as a
Phase 2 study of BIIB061 in MS. We're also looking forward to several upcoming clinical readouts including Phase 3
results for SMNRx in spinal muscular atrophy, Phase 2 results for anti-LINGO in MS, and interim Phase 2 results for
BAN2401 and E2609 both for Alzheimer's disease.
We look forward to a deeper discussion of these pipeline programs and other initiatives at our upcoming R&D investor
day on November 3.
I'll now pass the call to Paul.
Paul J. Clancy
Thanks, Al. Our GAAP diluted earnings per share were $4.15 in the third quarter. Our non-GAAP diluted earnings per
share were $4.48.
Total revenue for Q3 grew 11% year-over-year to approximately $2.8 billion.
Foreign exchange offset by hedging weakened total revenue by approximately $63 million year-over-year. Global third
quarter TECFIDERA revenue was $937 million, an increase of 19% versus Q3 of last year and an increase of 6%
versus the prior quarter. Foreign exchange impact, offset by hedging, weakened TECFIDERA revenue by
approximately $12 million year over year.
This quarter's TECFIDERA revenues consisted of $754 million in the U.S. and $183 million outside the U.S.
Compared to the second quarter of 2015, U.S. TECFIDERA revenue increased 5% partially due to an increase in
inventory at specialty pharmacies. While U.S. revenue also benefited from a price increase in the quarter, this was
partially offset by an increase in managed care and government rebates. In Europe, TECFIDERA had strong sequential
patient growth this quarter driven by newly launched markets including the U.K., Italy and Spain.
Interferon revenues, including both AVONEX and PLEGRIDY increased 5% year over year to $785 million in the
third quarter. Foreign exchange impact offset by hedging weakened interferon revenue by approximately $23 million
year over year. Interferon revenues were comprised of $538 million in the U.S. and $247 million in sales outside the
U.S. On a sequential basis, we believe the 18% increase in U.S. interferon revenue benefited from a wholesale
Company Name: Biogen Inc
Company Ticker: BIIB US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 14
inventory rebalancing coming off the inventory drawdown in Q2, which contributed approximately $40 million.
Outside the U.S., AVONEX revenue benefited from $16 million from the timing of shipments in Brazil and a clinical
trial order in our rest-of-world business.
TYSABRI continued to add patients this quarter with worldwide revenues of $480 million. These results were
comprised of $284 million in the U.S. and $196 million internationally. Foreign exchange impact, offset by hedging,
weakened TYSABRI revenue by approximately $23 million year over year.
Turning to hemophilia business, ALPROLIX revenue in Q3 was $66 million and ELOCTATE was $91 million. In the
U.S., after a period of rapid uptake for ALPROLIX with elevated switching in the market, we saw the switch rates start
to moderate as roughly half of the moderate and severe Hemophilia B patients treated prophylactically have switched to
ALPROLIX.
ELOCTATE has continued to grow in the U.S., and we saw increased breadth and depth of prescribing. Approximately
20% of moderate and severe prophylactic patients with Hemophilia A have switched to ELOCTATE.
Our U.S. profit share for RITUXAN and GAZYVA, as well as our profit share and royalties on sales of rituximab
outside the U.S. were $337 million.
Now turning to the expense lines on the non-GAAP P&L. Q3 cost of goods sold were $310 million or 11% of revenue.
Q3 R&D expense was $520 million or 19% of revenues. This includes $48 million in upfront in milestone expense
related to our recently closed collaboration with AGTC. We made a $60 million milestone payment to Neurimmune
this quarter, triggered by dosing of the first patient in, in the Phase 3 trials for aducanumab. This payment was an
expense and presented within the non-controlling interest line in the P&L.
Q3 SG&A expense was $478 million or 17% of revenue, as we continued to make steps in containing SG&A expenses.
Our non-GAAP tax rate was approximately 24% for Q3. This brings us to our non-GAAP diluted earnings per share,
which were $4.48 for the third quarter, an increase of 18% over Q3 2014. While there are a number of puts and takes in
the quarter, we delivered a very solid quarter with solid results from the United States interferon business, continued
European rollout of TECFIDERA, continued progress in the hemophilia franchise and meaningful cost control
absorbing the AGTC in Neurimmune payments.
Let me turn to discuss our progress on returning capital to shareholders. Recall, our Board had authorized a $5 billion
share repurchase program in May of this year. Due to lower share price, we've put in place a more robust share
repurchase plan in late July, effectively expediting the program. Through September 30, we've purchased
approximately 9.7 million shares of our common stock for a cost of approximately $3 billion. And since the end of the
quarter, we have purchased an additional 3.2 million shares for approximately $900 million. Our current expectation is
to complete the $5 billion share repurchase plan by the end of the year. In conjunction with funding our share
repurchase program, we borrowed $6 billion of senior unsecured notes in mid-September. This included maturities of
five, seven, 10 and 30 years. We ended the quarter with approximately $7.8 billion in cash and marketable securities,
split approximately 60/40 between the U.S. and ex-U.S.
Let me now provide additional detail on the corporate restructuring. The restructuring includes the termination of a
number of pipeline programs and an 11% reduction in workforce. The reduction was the result of a number of actions
including the consolidation and elimination of certain overlapping groups across the organization in analytical and
operational support and in marketing, resizing portions of the company where we felt there was excess capacity,
including in our manufacturing operation, resizing our ex-U.S. commercial operation, and reductions driven by our
de-emphasis of certain activities in immunology and fibrosis research in the termination of certain development
programs.
We plan to complete the majority of the reduction of the global workforce by the end of 2015. The restructuring is
expected to reduce the current annual run rate of operating expenses by approximately $250 million. We expect to
incur a charge in the range of approximately $85 million to $95 million, primarily in the fourth quarter related to the
restructuring. Additionally, we are currently in the middle of our financial planning for 2016 and aim toward additional
Company Name: Biogen Inc
Company Ticker: BIIB US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 14
savings in non-labor expenses with the objective of reducing lower priority fees and services expense. Conversely on
the investment side, as we move into 2016, we're excited and plan to invest behind an emerging mid- and late-stage
pipeline, invest in TECFIDERA DTC, and we'll potentially invest at risk behind prelaunch activities related to the
potential commercialization of SMNRx.
While we'll outline our specific 2016 financial guidance in late January, we currently expect upward pressure in R&D
and aim for leverage in SG&A. We aim to achieve lower overall expense growth in the top line for 2016. The
restructuring will yield real savings to enhance our offering results for 2016 and beyond while also providing financial
flexibility as we embark on a number of meaningful pipeline opportunities. Given the restructuring, change in capital
structure and share repurchase activity this quarter, we're updating our full-year 2015 guidance. Let me start with
revenues.
We now expect revenue growth between 8% and 9%, a modest increase versus prior guidance, reflecting the revenue
strength seen this quarter. This guidance assumes modest patient growth in the U.S. for our MS products as a whole for
the balance of the year. The revenue outlook also assumes a sequential decrease in Q4 due to the assumption of stable
U.S. channel inventory levels for the balance of the year in MS and a reduction in U.S. wholesaler inventory levels for
RITUXAN. Non-GAAP full year R&D expense is expected to be between 19% and 20% of revenue, unchanged from
prior guidance. Assuming deal closure, we will book an approximately $60 million expense to R&D in the fourth
quarter relating to our agreement with Mitsubishi Tanabe.
Non-GAAP full year SG&A expense is expected to be approximately 19% to 20% of revenue, a decrease from prior
guidance. We do expect to invest in TECFIDERA TV in Q4. We anticipate booking a GAAP charge of approximately
$85 million to $95 million primarily in Q4 related to the restructuring.
In conjunction with our recently completed bond offering, we now anticipate additional interest expense of
approximately $60 million per quarter. We expect to end the year with approximately 219 million fully diluted shares
and have a full-year weighted average diluted share count of approximately 231 million shares. We anticipate
non-GAAP full-year earnings per share results between $16.20 and $16.50. This represents an increase of 17% to 19%
year-over-year. And GAAP earnings per share, we expect to be between $14.65 and $14.95. The increase versus prior
guidance is due to stronger-than-anticipated revenues in Q3, taking costs out of the business and the share repurchase
activity.
I'll turn the call over to George for his closing comments.
George A. Scangos, Ph.D.
Thank you, Paul. This year has been a challenging one for those of us here at Biogen, but I believe that we have a solid
business and R&D pipeline with exceptional potential, a thoughtful capital allocation strategy, a well-controlled
expense base and a capable group of people who can execute against our goals.
If we put aside quarterly revenue variations due to fluctuations in inventory levels, FX or other factors, on a unit basis
we've seen moderate but steady growth in the underlying business. Our pipeline has matured and I believe the pipeline
is more exciting and more promising than it was a year ago. Additional data for aducanumab and anti-LINGO
increased our optimism about both of those compounds. We believe that MT-1303 has real potential in ulcerative
colitis and Crohn's disease. Raxatrigine had promising data in a controlled Phase 2 trial. And will move to a Phase 3
trial in trigeminal neuralgia and a Phase 2b trial in sciatica. SMNRx data from the open-label Phase 2 trial are
encouraging, and we're looking forward to the Phase 3 data late next year or early 2017.
Additionally, our research has become truly world class and we're looking forward to giving you a deeper view of what
we're doing at R&D Day on November 3.
In Q3, we began the execution of a thoughtful capital allocation strategy. We issued $6 billion of senior unsecured
notes, which allowed us to take advantage of our lowered stock price to return approximately $4 billion to investors
through stock buybacks, with an additional $1 billion to go. We have been able to reduce our share count substantially
Company Name: Biogen Inc
Company Ticker: BIIB US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 14
while leaving adequate financial flexibility for strategic acquisitions of compounds and their companies.
We continue to consider opportunities within our core areas of expertise both large and small, and as always will do so
while being financially disciplined. The restructuring that we announced today was an extremely difficult decision, and
all of us feel deeply for the affected employees. These people are our friends and colleagues and they have played a big
role in the successes that Biogen has had up until now. They're good people, good employees and it truly saddens us to
have to take this action. On behalf of the senior leadership team, I want to express our sincere appreciation for the work
that everyone at Biogen has done.
Although this action is extremely difficult, it's a necessary step in order for us to fulfill our goals as a company. I
believe that our mid- and late-stage pipeline is larger and higher quality than it has ever been. Aducanumab, SMNRx,
raxatrigine and MT-1303 either are or soon will be in the Phase 3, and we're hopeful that LINGO will join them next
year. These programs will require substantial investments, and we believe that restructuring will allow us to
aggressively conduct these programs while maintaining healthy earnings growth.
Next year, we expect to have meaningful clinical data from SMNRx, anti-LINGO, BAN2401, our base inhibitor E2609
and we hope to gain approval for ZINBRYTA and for two of our biosimilar molecules. So our pipeline has both near
term and longer term potential to add value to patients and the company and we need to be able to adequately fund
these exciting programs. The restructuring helps us to do so.
Before I conclude, I want to take a moment to acknowledge Tony Kingsley's contributions to Biogen. Tony joined
Biogen over five years ago and was instrumental in leading the successful introduction of several important new
therapies that helped serve patients around the world. I want to publicly thank Tony for all that he has done and wish
him all the best in his next endeavor. Tony built an extremely capable team, and I believe that we have the people and
programs in place to maximize the potential of our commercial portfolio.
In the interim, leadership of this group will be assumed by John Cox, EVP of Pharmaceutical Operations and
Technology. John has been with Biogen for over 12 years, has a good understanding of all aspects of our business, and
I believe that he will effectively lead this group.
So as we move forward, we're starting from a good base and we'll focus on five key goals: One, maximize the potential
of our commercial portfolio; two, aggressively advance our mid- and late-stage clinical programs to get them done on
or ahead of schedule; three, continue our emphasis on world-class science and medicine; four, carefully control our
costs; and five, pursue nonorganic growth opportunities. We're energized by the potential that we have to transform the
lives of patients around the world, and by doing so to do right by our shareholders. I can't promise you success in
everything that we do, but I can promise you our commitment and dedication.
And with that, we'll now open up the call for questions.
Q&A
Operator
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Mark Schoenebaum with Evercore ISI. Your line is open.
<Q - Mark J. Schoenebaum>: Once again, thanks for all the transparency, that's been the hallmark of Paul's tenure as
CFO and George as CFO. And your IR team has done a great job too. I had some questions on the pipeline for Al, if I
may? Al, when will we actually see data from some of the titration doses on the A-beta antibody, most importantly the
titration to the 10-milligram data, please?
And number two, you've talked about this before, but I think it's time that we all start talking about it again, and just
wanted to get your take. The optic neuritis data the Street looked at is kind of – you had to really squint to see activity.
So Wall Street expectations right now are extremely low for LINGO and MS. Do you view LINGO and MS as a low
probability trial? Or is this one that you have a higher degree of confidence in? Thank you.
Company Name: Biogen Inc
Company Ticker: BIIB US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 14
<A - Alfred W. Sandrock Jr., M.D., Ph.D.>: Thanks, Mark. On the first question, we expect to show results in the
second half of the year. We actually have two places...
<A>: 2016.
<A - Alfred W. Sandrock Jr., M.D., Ph.D.>: Of next year. Yeah. There's two places where we're doing titration. One
is that when we put people from placebo in the prime study in the Phase 1b study over into the long-term extension that
was a titration phase. And second, in cohorts eight and nine in the prime study, titration was built into that study. So
there are these two studies essentially to analyze, and it's going to take us a little bit of time, particularly to get to the
10-milligram, which is what you're interested in, and will be the second half of next year.
In terms of the anti-LINGO, look, it's high risk. Nobody has ever even attempted, really, that I know of, to repair the
central nervous system, and it's a tall order. On the other hand, we think we have proof of biology based on the optic
neuritis study. We believe that the results portend that we're getting the biology we want. The key question for me is, is
that biology going to lead to a clinically meaningful effect? And that's what we're hoping to see in the MS trial.
Operator
The next question is from Matthew Harrison with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
<Q - Matthew K. Harrison>: Great. Thanks. Definitely a lot of questions to ask. Maybe just another one for Al.
Maybe just specifically on SPMS, it's unclear to me from the press release. It sounded like what you were trying to say
was you saw some impact in patients that had active lesions, and you saw no impact in patients that didn't. Can you
maybe just confirm if that was what you are trying to say? And if there was any numerical trend outside of patients
without active lesions?
<A - Alfred W. Sandrock Jr., M.D., Ph.D.>: Well, I mean what we are saying is that, it's true, that there was a
minority of patients that were still relapsing in the trial, and that's why we were able to show a robust effect on relapse
rate. Those are what I would call active from the inflammatory point of view. And that clearly was, we saw that we had
seen in the past in inflammatory disease with TYSABRI.
In the noninflammatory group, which was I think the majority of patients, we think we see something in the upper
extremity. However, we did not see in effect on the other two components of the primary endpoint, which was the
EDSS and the timed 25-foot walk. And so, were disappointed in the fact that we didn't see an effect on ambulation.
And so, I think that's the reason why the primary endpoint was negative. I would say that upper extremity function is
important in patients, particularly if their ambulation is starting to get lost. So that's why we're going to present these
results next year at a scientific meeting.
Operator
The next question is from Geoff Meacham with Barclays. Your line is open.
<Q - Geoffrey Meacham>: Morning, guys. Thanks for all the detail today and congrats on the quarter. Switch gears to
ask a couple questions on commercial for TECFIDERA and the DTC campaign. What population of MS patients do
you get or do you expect to get that you couldn't reach previously? And maybe can you speak to the breadth and length
of time that you'll be doing a DTC outreach just thinking from a cost perspective. Thanks.
<A - Paul J. Clancy>: Yeah. Thanks, Geoff. This is Paul. I'll take a crack at that question. We essentially started in the
first week of October. Some of you may have seen the TV campaign. I think the current thinking now is we'll look hard
at measuring this thing along the way, but I think the current thinking now is well into 2016. In our planning, that we're
doing now, is to effectively have it ongoing throughout the majority of 2016. I think the overall objective isn't that
dissimilar to what we saw early on in the launch, is that TECFIDERA, when it came only on the launch, expanded the
market, activated new patients. Many of them that had gotten injections fatigue on the sidelines, and I think the
Company Name: Biogen Inc
Company Ticker: BIIB US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 14
thinking here is to activate those patients, activating a whole new set of patients through patient awareness, which we
do have some data that actually suggests that it's a relatively low level of patient awareness, or said another way, at
least that is a big opportunity in driving patient awareness. And we also have data that suggest that when a patient
comes to a doctor, particularly in the United States, with a preferred therapy, that is often the therapy that the patient
goes on. So that's kind of a bit of the core thesis and we look forward to kind of moving forward with it.
Operator
The next question is from Ying Huang with Bank of America. Your line is open.
<Q - Ying Huang>: Good morning. Thanks for taking my question. First one, I have a housekeeping question. Can
you spell out the TECFIDERA U.S. inventory impact exactly. And then also may be for Al, what's your consideration
behind the decision to proceed for MS indications for MT-1303? Is that conditional on the readout from LINGO or the
other progress in MS program? And lastly, can you update on the timing for the antibody, BAN2401, and also the
BACE inhibitor, E2609, in second half. Thank you.
<A - Paul J. Clancy>: All right. I think I'll take the first of your four questions, Ying. So that's a pretty easy one. Our
best estimate on the – essentially the tailwind we had on TECFIDERA inventory in [ph] SPP (37:21) this quarter was
about $10 million to $15 million. Al?
<A - Alfred W. Sandrock Jr., M.D., Ph.D.>: So on 1303 in MS, there's a number of options for that and we're
looking at all of them, and – well, first, you have to wait for this deal to close. But in the meantime, we're considering a
number of options. In terms of the other Alzheimer's programs, BAN and the BACE inhibitor, I think the best thing to
do would be to ask Eisia actually of what their timelines are. My understanding is that sometime next year we'll see
some data from the BACE inhibitor. And in terms of the BAN, I mean, there's sort of interim analyses that are based on
events or numbers of people randomized, I believe. So that's my understanding but I think we could see something next
year as well.
Operator
The next question is from Eric Schmidt with Cowen & Co. Your line is open.
<Q - Eric Thomas Schmidt>: Thanks for taking my question. It sounds like you guys spoke a little bit more about
SMNRx on this call than in the past. I think I actually heard Paul say something about commercial preparation or
potential commercial preparation next year. Has your optimism around the program changed? And is there a chance for
a filing prior to the Phase 3 data?
<A - Alfred W. Sandrock Jr., M.D., Ph.D.>: Well, we've been fairly optimistic. I've been fairly optimistic for quite
some time, and with every passing day as we look at the open label data from the Phase 1 studies, my optimism
remains. But I still think that we're going to need data from the Phase 3 program. I mean, these are the definitive
controlled clinical trials, and I would not want to raise any expectations that we could do anything without looking at
that data.
<A - Paul J. Clancy>: And then, Eric, this is Paul. Just to kind of – the other part of your question was commercial
preparedness. I would characterize this, as I mentioned, this would be at risk, commercial prelaunch activity. And it's a
specialty market. So I think it's in a manageable amount of money, but we would likely look towards doing that
sometime in 2016.
Operator
The next question is from Terence Flynn with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Company Name: Biogen Inc
Company Ticker: BIIB US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 14
<Q - Terence C. Flynn>: Hi. Thanks for taking the questions. Maybe just two from me. Paul, you gave us some of the
drivers for next year's spend, and recognize you don't want to give guidance at this point because you're in the midst of
planning, but net-net as you think about just OpEx, can you comment directionally if we should think about it up or
down versus this year. And then the second question I had related to ocrelizumab. Now that we've seen the full Phase 3
data, Al, just wondering if you can frame for how you think about this as a competitive threat to either TECFIDERA
and/or TYSABRI. Thanks.
<A - Paul J. Clancy>: Yeah, Terence. It's hard for me. I think we're obviously right in the middle of planning. So we
did want to provide some context, given we've got all these moving pieces coming out of the restructuring right now,
but I think it goes back to it likely is operating expenses that are up. It is likely a very manageable number up. I don't
want to give a specific number until we really get kind of to the end of your call and the 2016 guidance call, but the
restructuring provides real benefits in the magnitude of what we announced today of $250 million. We're working now.
That is very much about head count reduction and some of the program decisions. We're working now, during our
planning process, to look at fees and services, what we call external expenses as well, and put it under a similar type of
lens. And then we're very happy that we simultaneously, on the flipside, have all these great opportunities as the midand
late-stage pipeline starts to mature. So I think we're attacking the efficiencies and working towards investing wisely
towards driving sustainable growth for the future. And what we're trying to do is essentially make that all work, as
George had mentioned, towards getting some earnings leverage as well.
<A - Alfred W. Sandrock Jr., M.D., Ph.D.>: On ocrelizumab, first of all, I think Roche did a very nice job of the
Phase 3 program in relapsing MS and PPMS. I do think – I believe, if approved, it will be a major contribution for MS
patients, which is good. On the efficacy side, it did line up with our expectation. It's pretty similar in many ways to
what's already been shown in the Phase 2 program for not only ocrelizumab but RITUXAN, and so it's in line with our
expectations. As with any program, there's always some safety issues, and we'll see how the label shapes up in terms of
the benefit risk. And then that will determine how it relates to other products in the market.
Operator
The next question is from Matt Roden with UBS. Your line is open.
<Q - Matt M. Roden>: Great. Thanks very much for taking the question and congrats on a nice bounce-back quarter
here. So one of the biggest questions I've gotten in the last quarter, couple months here, has been, industry-wide, just on
drug pricing and the contribution of pricing in volumes to growth. And obviously this has been industry-wide, but you
guys have been included as part of that discussion. So George or Paul, can you just add some perspective to this debate
from your point of view? It seems like the industry isn't really stepping up and telling their side of the story. And then
more specifically if you can comment on how you expect the net pricing environment to evolve in MS? How you see
the relative contributions of pricing and volumes on a forward-looking basis? Thanks.
<A - George A. Scangos, Ph.D.>: Okay, this is George. I can take the first part of that question. Look, obviously,
there's been a lot of rhetoric about drug pricing recently. Part of that is the presidential campaign. I don't expect that
rhetoric to go away anytime soon. I think the industry is preparing a thoughtful presentation of a different perspective
on drug prices and the value that we bring to patients and to the medical community. In the end, look, I mean, it's what
everybody says, but it's true. In the end, things are going to be priced according to the value that they bring to patients,
right? And if I – we – I believe that if we bring forward innovative drugs that make a difference in the lives of patients
that those will continue to get attractive pricing. And that's why we're working on the kinds of drugs that we're
working, aducanumab and SMNRx and LINGO for MS. Those potentially can make a magnitude of difference that will
continue to justify good reimbursement even in a tough pricing environment. So I think that's how we're thinking about
it generally. In terms of gross-to-net, I'll let Paul take that part of the question
<A - Paul J. Clancy>: Yeah. I mean, Matt, I think we don't have too many different comments than we've had in the
past in terms of the near-term dynamics. Obviously, we've talked about how United States and Europe dynamics are
slightly different. We see similar dynamics as we have in the past, and we'll continue to be very, very thoughtful on
Company Name: Biogen Inc
Company Ticker: BIIB US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 14
what is a critical judgment.
Operator
The next question is from Cory Kasimov with JPMorgan. Your line is open.
<Q - Cory W. Kasimov>: Hey. Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking the questions. George, you mentioned in your
scripted comments that you continue to actively look for late stage or commercial assets. So when thinking about
business development in the context of your existing commercial franchise and clinical pipeline, what do you consider
the sweet spot in terms of the size of potential deals? And does the restructuring you announced today in any way
impact your willingness to engage in M&A? Thanks.
<A - George A. Scangos, Ph.D.>: Sure. Look, we are constantly looking for interesting opportunities that are
consistent with our strategy, that are in our areas of expertise. I would say there is no sweet spot. It's a question of value
of what you get for what you pay. And we've been financially disciplined in the past. I think we brought in some
attractive assets, MT-1303 and raxatrigine in the past several months. I think those are very interesting compounds. We
will continue to look for compounds like that, that we believe are high quality compounds with reasonable chances of
success in making a difference on the marketplace that we can acquire at a cost that makes sense for us. So we're
looking at some small things. We're looking at some large things. And it's not so much a question of the size but is of
making solid strategic medical and financial decisions.
Operator
The next question is from Brian Abrahams with Jeffries. Your line is open.
<Q - Brian C. Abrahams>: Hi. Thanks very much for taking my questions. Two questions, for 1303 you talked about
the heart rate changes. Can you talk about any other elements of the compound's profile that you found most attractive
and what you believe differentiates that drug from the other marketed and developmental S1Ps with respect to
selectivity and bio-distribution? And then secondly, what proportion of the use of TYSABRI and your other MS
therapies today is in primary progressive MS? Thanks.
<A - Alfred W. Sandrock Jr., M.D., Ph.D.>: On 1303, we were – first of all, on the efficacy side, we felt that the
efficacy was similar to all the other S1P1 modulators, certainly when you look across the MS trials and even when you
look across, say, psoriasis, the most attractive thing was the fact that Mitsubishi Tanabe, with their expertise, figured
out a way to – it's not simply taking out the S1P3 activity, because a lot of people have done that. But there are other
characteristics of the molecule that lead it to have, we think, an interesting effect on the heart rate, which we believe is
one of the key issues associated with first dose administration. And so, it was that. That was attractive.
On TYSABRI, I don't think TYSABRI is used very much in PPMS. In fact, there are no effective therapies for PPMS.
And I think I'm pretty – I don't think that any of the immunomodulatory therapies are used very much at all in PPMS is
my understanding.
Operator
The next question is from Chris Raymond with Raymond James. Your line is open.
<Q - Chris J. Raymond>: Hi. Thanks, guys. Just a couple quick questions here. First on TECFIDERA, thanks for
quantifying that inventory impact. But I'm just kind of curious, you guys had a mid-quarter price increase. Oftentimes
that can be seen as a driver for wholesaler inventory moves. Can you just clarify maybe some of the drivers for the
inventory increase? And then on BAN2401, besides identifying a dose, can you talk a little bit about what success
might look like here? I know this trial could be as few as 350 patients but as many as 800, I believe. And so there's a lot
of sort of differences with this trial. You've got a different sort of cognition endpoint, etcetera. I guess, just basically
Company Name: Biogen Inc
Company Ticker: BIIB US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 14
talk about how we should view success with that. Thanks.
<A - Paul J. Clancy>: Chris, I'll start with the TECFIDERA inventory question and whether or not it was driven by
pricing. We don't believe so. Our best understanding is actually the driver of the increase on inventory in the specialty
channels was more driven by some government purchases that really actually potentially relate to fiscal year for certain
government institutions. So that wasn't – as I noted, it wasn't a lot, $10 million or $15 million. So that's our best
understanding at this point.
<A - Alfred W. Sandrock Jr., M.D., Ph.D.>: On BAN, I think there'll be several endpoints. One is that they'll be
looking at amyloid plaque load, amyloid plaque burden, which I think is important. And there is an examination of
cognition using a composite endpoint which includes things like the CDR Sum of Boxes. And the number – my
understanding of the interim analysis, or these analyses is based on the number of patients randomized. And so – but
again, I think, any detailed questions on that, I would rather that you ask Eisia.
Operator
The next question is from Joseph Schwartz with Leerink Partners. Your line is open.
<Q - Joseph P. Schwartz>: Thanks very much. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about aducanumab
in particular. It seems like you're shifting your strategy by targeting even more mild patients or earlier stage patients in
Phase 3. How should we think about this in terms of the enrollment rate, and probability of success, and the market
opportunity? And are you building in a interim analysis here? Thanks very much.
<A - Alfred W. Sandrock Jr., M.D., Ph.D.>: Yes. Well, we are targeting prodromal and the milder sort of segment of
the mild population based on an EDS – I mean, sorry, MMSE cutoff. And that's because our belief is that the drug –
these drugs will work better in the earlier stages of the disease. And in terms of enrollment, we're pretty encouraged by
what we see in early days. There's a lot of excitement about our drug and enrollment line rates are in line or slightly
ahead of what we anticipated. So, so far it's still early days on the enrollment and there is a lot of competition for
similar types of patients. Nevertheless, we're encouraged by what we see.
<A - Paul J. Clancy>: [indiscernible] (52:51)?
<A - Alfred W. Sandrock Jr., M.D., Ph.D.>: Well I just – yeah. I think I answered the full question.
Operator
The next question is from Brian Skorney with Robert Baird. Your line is open.
<Q - Brian P. Skorney>: Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my question. I guess I was wondering if you could provide any
commentary on any U.S. MS market, how are we seeing any impact of generic COPAXONE, GLATOPA? Are we
seeing this primarily impacting the brand right now or do think there's been any impact on your MS franchise? And just
real quick on ocrelizumab, could you just recall that – refresh us on the economics that you're getting from Roche on
worldwide sales of this program? Thanks.
<A - Paul J. Clancy>: Brian, thanks for the question. It's Paul. Let me try to take both of those. With respect, it's
relatively early. I think we could've said the same thing on the last call so it's 90 days more than it was relatively early
last call. But we're seeing mostly exactly as you had alluded to the impact of generic [indiscernible] (53:55). So we're
certainly keeping a very watchful eye on that. Ocrelizumab, economics to us are 13.5% to 24% royalty rate. It's a tiered
royalty rate on effectively net sales. There's a formula for it. Interesting, we also – I don't think we've shared in the past
we get a 3% royalty on ex-U.S. sales as well.
So as Al had alluded to in his prepared remarks, we've got a business interest in this. There could be impact on our
existing therapies, but we do see this as very interesting financial interest. And certainly in primary progressive MS,
where there's a tremendous unmet need, there's a real opportunity as well and a financial opportunity for us as well.
Company Name: Biogen Inc
Company Ticker: BIIB US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 14
Operator
The next question is from Tom Schrader with Stifel. Your line is open.
<Q - Tom Schrader>: Good morning. You didn't actually answer the interim look question for aducanumab. I'm a
little curious if this gigantic trial going on with two looks at other drugs. So how do you think about that?
<A - Paul J. Clancy>: I knew there was a second part of that question. I think we missed the market opportunity as
well.
<A - Alfred W. Sandrock Jr., M.D., Ph.D.>: We – I don't think it's great practice to be talking about interim looks.
We're not really planning on anything like that for aducanumab. I think we have a robustly designed trial. It's of the
right duration, and so we'll go right to the end.
Operator
The next question is from Michael Yee with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.
<Q - Michael J. Yee>: Thanks for the question. A commercial question for Paul. On TECFIDERA, you had suggested
I guess on the last call that you really thought things were going to be flattish. I didn't really sort of hear necessarily that
tone here, and you talked a bunch of positive things about maybe why it could start to creep up on the volume side. So
two-part question. One is, are you seeing volumes creep up little bit? Just trying to understand what's going on near
term and I guess at the end of the year? And then second part on rebating the managed-care, you mentioned increases in
rebating. So just maybe explain a little bit about what's going on there as it relates to TECFIDERA volumes and net
price? Thanks.
<A - Paul J. Clancy>: Yeah. Thanks, Michael. It's actually a helpful point of clarification. So we actually are – to a
large extent, what we outlined in the middle of the year is that we're aspiring for much more, but we outlined on
relatively flat patient demand in the United States, that is actually what we witnessed in Q3. We definitely saw
continued solid growth in a number of the launch countries in Europe, U.K., Spain, Italy. They've had very, very good
performance, but I'd characterize that as launch countries. I think we still absolutely aspire towards a much better
performance in the United States. That continues to be a lot of big homework, but until we see that result turn around,
we won't really incorporated it in our near-term financial outlook. The action plans that we have under – it is absolutely
priority number one in terms of our commercial efforts. The action plans we have underway include DTC activity, they
include enhanced patient support around tolerability and working through that. We're focused hard in our own patient
services when working with SBPs, of getting patients on therapy, what we call cycle time. And we're certainly very
focused on increasing sales force details across the world, but certainly in the United States. So we aspire towards but
we haven't yet actually seen it, as George had noted in his remarks as well.
Operator
The next question is from Geoff Meacham with Barclays. Your line is open.
<Q - Geoffrey Meacham>: Guys, thanks for taking the follow-up. I guess, my question for Paul, in the past you guys
have given parameters around the level of deal in licensing activity. I just want to kind of get a sense, I'm assuming that
tuck-in probably means in line with what you guys have done in the past, and I want to get that perspective from you,
and then maybe how you would prioritize capital allocation with the stock where it is now versus buybacks with the
stock where it is today versus deal activity. Thanks.
<A - Paul J. Clancy>: It's a tough question. I think we're going to try and have our P&L in a way set up that we cannot
have internal friction to do the classic tuck-in type deals. That's how we've done it over the last couple of years. At this
Company Name: Biogen Inc
Company Ticker: BIIB US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 14
point for the fourth quarter, it's essentially the Mitsubishi Tanabe expense that we expect, assuming HSR clearance.
We'll try to ourselves that -the normal type as we go into 2016.
In terms of capital allocation, we certainly don't want to be opaque, but I think this is in the category of it depends. We
definitely aim towards all of our decisions on capital allocation is about driving intrinsic value, shareholder value
creation. So when we see great opportunities in terms of doing that for returning capital to shareholders through share
repurchases, we'll execute against that. We've certainly shown that action over the last 60 days. And as George had
mentioned, we feel we have an absolute obligation to build the business in a financial disciplined ways with larger
deployments, if we can achieve that.
<A - George A. Scangos, Ph.D.>: And this is George. Look, if you look out into next year, we'll have four compounds
in Phase 3. That's not four Phase 3 trials. It's more than four trials, but it's four Phase 3 programs. And we're hopeful. If
LINGO has data next year that justify moving that forward, that will be a fifth. And we certainly want to leave capacity
to move LINGO forward should the Phase 2 data justify doing so. So I think anything that we would look to in-license
that would go immediately into Phase 3 would have to cross a pretty high hurdle. But we're continuing to look for
compounds at all stages I'm thinking at this point with particular emphasis on the earlier pipeline.
Operator
There are no further questions at this time. We'll turn the call back over to our presenters.
George A. Scangos, Ph.D.
Okay. Well, that was a lot to digest. Thank you all for your attention today. We have a lot going on here, and we'll keep
you posted as we go forward. Thanks.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.