Company Name: Intel
Company Ticker: INTC US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 12
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Mark H. Henninger
• Brian M. Krzanich
• Stacy J. Smith
Other Participants
• Christopher Brett Danely
• Ross C. Seymore
• Stacy Aaron Rasgon
• John William Pitzer
• James V. Covello
• Vivek Arya
• Douglas Freedman
• David M. Wong
• Romit J. Shah
• Ambrish Srivastava
• Michael C. McConnell
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Intel Corporation Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and
instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Mark Henninger, Head of Investor Relations. Sir, you
may begin.
Mark H. Henninger
Thank you, Amanda, and welcome everyone to Intel's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call. By now you should
have received a copy of our earnings release and the CFO commentary that goes along with it. If you've not received
both documents, they're available on our Investor website, intc.com. I'm joined today by Brian Krzanich, our CEO, and
Stacy Smith, our Chief Financial Officer. In a moment, we'll hear brief remarks from both of them followed by Q&A.
Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today's discussion contains forward-looking statements based on the
environment as we currently see it, and as such does include risks and uncertainties. Please refer to our press release for
more information on the specific risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Also, if, during this
call, we use any non-GAAP financial measures or references, we'll post the appropriate GAAP financial reconciliation
to our website intc.com.
And finally, I'd like to remind everyone that we'll be hosting our Annual Investor Meeting here at our Santa Clara
headquarters on Thursday, November 19. If you have questions about the event or logistics, please contact Investor
Company Name: Intel
Company Ticker: INTC US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 12
Relations.
With that, let me hand it over to Brian.
Brian M. Krzanich
Thanks, Mark. We executed well against our strategy in the third quarter and delivered revenue just above the midpoint
of our expectations; as a result of a richer client mix driven largely by our new sixth-gen Core products. Despite
ongoing macroeconomic headwinds, there are signs that the PC market is beginning to stabilize and we continue to
benefit from a strategy designed to capitalize on the growing need for the infrastructure that powers the smart and
connected world. I'd like to take a moment to touch on a few highlights.
The Client Computing Group products and good/better/best segmentation strategy drove record Core mix. The third
quarter saw the release of both Windows 10 and our sixth-generation Core microprocessors; formally known as
Skylake. Our partners in the industry are using this combination to drive an unprecedented innovation, creating new
generation of high-performance enthusiast desktops and thinner, lighter and more versatile two-in-ones.
There are more than 50 sixth-generation Core systems in the market available and shipping now and we expect to more
than triple that number by the end of 2015. We remain solidly on track to our previously committed goal to improve
mobile profitability by $800 million. Over 75% of that goal has already been realized to-date. At the same time, our
strategy to be a foundational supplier of Internet infrastructure is delivering growth.
Our Data Center, Non-Volatile Memory and IoT Groups all posted double-digit growth year-over-year. DCG grew
12% on strong cloud and networking volume. At the same time, the Internet of Things Group grew 10%
year-over-year, driven by the video, manufacturing and retail segments. The Altera transaction remains on track to our
original six-month to nine-month closing schedule. During the quarter, both U.S. regulators and Altera stockholders
approved the transaction. We are excited about the new opportunities and innovations that integrated FPGAs will make
possible in the Data Center and the Internet of Things.
In the third quarter, the strength in our Memory business continued, growing 20% year-over-year. We are excited about
our 3D XPoint technology, the industry's first new memory category in more than two decades. This breakthrough
technology is up to 1,000 times faster than NAND and up to 10 times denser than conventional memories like DRAMs.
This enables memory-intensive applications to be performed at much faster rates and much lower costs, opening up
entirely new opportunities.
3D XPoint is evidence of our commitment to innovation and it's a direct result of our 10-plus-year research and
development pipeline. While we have more work to do, together these results reinforce my confidence in our strategy
to create shareholder value.
I look forward to talking with you more about our opportunities and our plans during our November Investor Meeting.
And with that, let me turn the call over to Stacy.
Stacy J. Smith
Thanks, Brian. Revenue for the third quarter was $14.5 billion, 10% growth quarter-on-quarter and above the midpoint
of our outlook. The higher-than-expected revenue was driven by higher notebook and desktop platform average selling
prices as we shipped a record Core mix. Year-on-year revenue was flat. Third quarter gross margin of 63% was in line
with the outlook. Operating income of $4.2 billion was down 8% year-over-year and up 45% quarter-over-quarter.
Net income was $3.1 billion, down 6% year-over-year and up 15% quarter-over-quarter, and earnings per share of
$0.64 was down 3% year-over-year and up 16% quarter-over-quarter. The Client Computing Group had revenue of
$8.5 billion, a 7% decrease year-over-year. From a PC market perspective, we continue to see weakness in
non-consumer segments and emerging markets.
Company Name: Intel
Company Ticker: INTC US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 12
The worldwide PC supply chain is healthy as we ramp our sixth-generation Core microprocessors, formally known as
Skylake. Operating profit for the overall Client Computing Group was $2.4 billion, down 20% year-over-year. The
Data Center, Internet of Things and Memory businesses continue to account for almost 40% of our revenue in the third
quarter. The Data Center Group had record revenue of $4.1 billion. The 12% growth year-over-year is driven by
strength in the cloud and improvement in our enterprise business. The Data Center Group had operating profit of $2.1
billion, up 9% year-over-year.
The Internet of Things segment also achieved 10% year-over-year revenue growth at $581 million. Additionally, the
Memory business grew at 20%. The business continued to generate significant cash with $5.7 billion of cash from
operations in the third quarter. We purchased $1.2 billion in capital assets, paid $1.1 billion in dividends and
repurchased $1 billion of stock in the third quarter. Total cash balance at the end of the quarter was $20.8 billion, up $7
billion quarter-over-quarter.
Our net cash balance, total cash less debt, and inclusive of our other longer-term investments is approximately $5.1
billion. Over the next two quarters, we expect to complete the acquisition of Altera. During the third quarter, we issued
$8 billion of new long-term debt consistent with the financing plan I outlined on the last earnings call.
As we look forward to the fourth quarter of 2015, we are forecasting the midpoint of the revenue range at $14.8 billion,
up 2% from the third quarter. And we are forecasting the midpoint of the gross margin range to be 62%, a 1 point
decrease from the third quarter. This revenue forecast aligns with our prior full-year 2015 revenue guidance of down
approximately 1%, when compared to 2014. Overall, we are seeing a weak PC Client business being offset by strong
growth in the Data Center, Memory and Internet of Things businesses.
For the full-year 2015, we expect the Memory business to grow at a fast pace. Both the Data Center and Internet of
Things businesses will also exhibit strong growth. But the annual growth rate for these businesses will be lower than
expectations at the beginning of the year as a result of weaker-than-expected macroeconomic growth. We now expect
the Data Center business to grow in the low-double-digits versus the prior forecast of approximately 15%.
Relative to our forecast at the beginning of the year, we are seeing a weaker enterprise segment being partially offset by
a stronger-than-expected cloud segment. The third quarter results and the fourth quarter forecast reinforce our strategy.
Despite weakness in the macroeconomic environment and the overall PC market, we are achieving solid financial
results as we benefit from the growth in Data Center, Memory and Internet of Things businesses. More importantly, we
are building the foundation for future growth.
The combination of the sixth-generation Core microprocessor and Windows 10 creates exciting devices for the PC
segment. Our investments in leadership in the Data Center are resulting in strong growth. We have a strong and
growing Memory business, which is well positioned to disrupt the industry with the launch of 3D XPoint technology.
And lastly, we are well positioned to benefit in the Internet of Things market. Our process technology leadership and
our broad range of leadership IP creates a competitive advantage that we believe will result in increased shareholder
value. And as we complete the Altera acquisition, we expect to broaden our product portfolio and enable even more
innovation.
With that, let me turn it back over to Mark.
Mark H. Henninger
Okay. Thank you, Brian and Stacy.
Moving on now to the Q&A, as is our normal practice, we would ask each participant to ask one question and just one
follow-up if you have one. Amanda, please go ahead and introduce our first questioner.
Q&A
Company Name: Intel
Company Ticker: INTC US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 12
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question from Chris Danely of Citigroup. Your line is open.
<Q - Christopher Brett Danely>: Hey, thanks, guys. I guess, just to kind of go over the revenue beat, so it sounds
like, to paraphrase, it was mostly driven by or all driven by CCG, and that was mostly driven by pricing. Is that true?
And then, why wouldn't gross margins have been a little better than expected if pricing was so strong? Or if you could
just set me straight on that.
<A - Stacy J. Smith>: Yeah. Sure. So, yes, the first approximation, the revenue higher than expectations was a result
of our richer mix inside the Client Group. You can see the unit and the ASP trends in the supplemental materials that I
put out. But pretty much to our expectations, it was all due to just a richer mix. We saw strength at the Core i7 level and
really across the Core product line as we launched Skylake.
The gross margin question, so if you look at the margin recon, what we saw was we saw some good news associated
with the richer mix. It was offset by a higher 14-nanometer costs than we were anticipating. We were expecting some
bad news. We got a little bit more bad news than we anticipated. And that comes down to, we actually ramped the
Ireland factory a little bit earlier and the first wafers out of that factory were pretty expensive. And so we saw a mixing
up of cost in Q3 a little bit more than we thought.
<Q - Christopher Brett Danely>: Okay. Thanks. And for my follow-up, you mentioned some demand going on out
there, some demand changes in the geos and everybody's concerned about China. Can you just comment on your
business in China and maybe just talk about how your geos did in general versus expectations.
<A - Brian M. Krzanich>: Sure. This is Brian. I think if you take a look at it, there's been a trend this entire year
where the mature markets have tended to be the strongest for us, so U.S., Western Europe, and Asia, PRC, parts of
Eastern Europe, developing countries not being as strong, they're having some softness; that carried into the third
quarter as well. And so if you just take a look at China in general, it kind of mimics that in that – if you look at sales,
they're down slightly. They're softer. And it's more of the consumer than the enterprise in that space. And across all the
different segments, we saw it across the board.
<Q - Christopher Brett Danely>: Okay. Thanks, guys.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Ross Seymore of Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.
<Q - Ross C. Seymore>: Hi, guys. Thanks for letting me ask a question. I'm going to follow up on the ASP side of
things. Stacy, could you give us a little color underneath the covers on how the CCG ASPs can be up 15%
year-over-year, when the desktop and notebook breakdowns are up at most, like, half or a third of that. And then, how
sustainable is that ASP increase going forward? As I notice, you did not put it into your gross margin benefit in the
fourth quarter.
<A - Stacy J. Smith>: Yeah. So on to your first question, the piece of math you're missing is what's going on in tablets.
And while it's a relatively small portion of the business, if you remember, a year ago we were seeing very significant
contra-revenue dollars, which was coming out of ASP. And those for the large part have abated. And so it's that change
in tablets that's giving you that average that's higher than both desktop and notebook. We provided it today. If you just
look at desktop, the ASP is up about 8% year-on-year and notebook ASP is up about 4% year-on-year, and that's really
just mix.
<Q - Ross C. Seymore>: Thank you.
<A - Stacy J. Smith>: And I'm sorry, there was a second part to your question...
Company Name: Intel
Company Ticker: INTC US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 12
<Q - Ross C. Seymore>: Oh, I just asked the sustainability and what it would do to gross margin, like you didn't
mention it in the fourth quarter as far as it being an ASP benefit.
<A - Stacy J. Smith>: Yeah. We're shipping a rich mix; that's been true across 2015. If you just – against the backdrop
of a relatively weak PC market, we've seen pockets of strength. And a lot of that's been at the high-end. And I think it's
coming down to we've got some great technology there. We are doing a reasonably good job of segmenting the product
line. So it's not one size fits all anymore. You have all-in-ones and gaming PCs. We've launched a specific line now for
gamers, those kinds of things. I think it's likely to stay a fairly rich mix. So if it's not in the gross margin recon, it just
means we're expecting it to maintain not necessarily grow from here, but also not necessarily come down.
<Q - Ross C. Seymore>: Great. And, I guess, as my follow-up, looking at your MCG, which you used to call the MCG
side, and more specifically, the cellular side, you've had another reasonably large player exit that market during this last
quarter in Marvell. Can you just give us an update on where you are with your LTE and maybe SoFIA product lines?
And strategically, have you noticed any change in that business now that the number of suppliers at the high-end seems
to be down to two?
<A - Brian M. Krzanich>: Yeah. So I think – so let me start with the first part of your question, which is how is the
progress going inside. So we have our 7260 modem. It's been shipping throughout this year. There are products
throughout the world that are using that modem, including in the U.S. The 7360, which is our next-generation modem
will be shipping by the end of this year with products to be announced by our customers next year. So the LTE modem
ramp, basically, you need to be on a yearly cadence with these modems, is going well.
SoFIA 3G and the 3G-R, which is the Rockchip version of the SoFIA, is in market today. You can see tablets and
phones with those today. You'll see the first of the SoFIA LTEs next year, first half of next year, and the SoFIA LTE
with Intel 14-nanometer in the back half of next year. And so those continue on schedule as well.
And market dynamics, I guess, the way I look at the modem business is it's not really dependent. It's a competitive
market, and it's not as much about how many players are in it. There's actually, I think, more than two. But it's really
about keeping the yearly cadence and having the right technologies in place and being competitive. And it doesn't
really matter almost how many there are. There will be somebody there trying to compete with you at that leading edge.
That's where the modem is really driven at that leading edge.
<Q - Ross C. Seymore>: Great. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Stacy Rasgon of Bernstein. Your line is open.
<Q - Stacy Aaron Rasgon>: Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. First, can you tell us what drove the CapEx cut
this quarter and what that implies for how you're viewing the sort of forward unit trajectory as we exit the year?
<A - Stacy J. Smith>: Yeah. Sure. It's actually – it's a pretty specific issue this quarter. We upgraded the configuration
of a specific piece of equipment that we were going to buy. We had some delivery slots that were towards the end of
this year. As we upgraded to a richer configuration, it swapped out the delivery slots from the end of this year to Q1 of
next year, so just shifted a few hundred million dollars' worth of CapEx from 2015 to 2016.
In terms of the outlook for next year, we're not providing that forecast now. We'll talk obviously a lot more about that
in November. You do have to keep in mind this was an unusually low year. So I'd expect directionally CapEx will be
up some next year, but we'll talk much more about that in November.
<Q - Stacy Aaron Rasgon>: Got it. Thank you. For my follow-up, I just want to clarify. So you're essentially holding
your Q4 revenue guide effectively unchanged versus what was implied before. We've got Data Center, which is
basically lower. PC outlook is still weak, and it seems like the unit outlook there may be lower than it was. Your CapEx
cut again suggests you don't see the unit trend improving. Is it fair to say then that really the pricing outlook is really all
that's kind of helping you support the outlook into Q4?
Company Name: Intel
Company Ticker: INTC US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 12
And I guess, you sort of talked about a little bit on sustainability of that then as you see it. But I guess, would you
define sort of the – I guess, the outlook on pricing now to be the biggest near-term risk beyond just what the channel's
doing? I guess, is pricing the biggest near-term risk in terms of what's driving the business if we're looking over the
next couple of quarters as we exit the year?
<A - Brian M. Krzanich>: So let me start with this. And then, I'm sure Stacy's going to have something to add, Stacy.
I think first, you made a comment that we're not – given the CapEx shift, we're not thinking about units growing.
Anything we spend in CapEx today is really about capacity probably more towards the end of next year or maybe even
into 2017. So you have to always remember there's this lag. And that's why, as we looked at the tool, we actually were
making an adjustment on the efficiency of that tool, basically, the number of units per tool out in order to get more
capacity when that tool is really required. So I want to just separate that so people don't get the wrong message about
the CapEx and what we're viewing in the future.
If you take a look at Q4, what we said was it's actually, relatively a seasonal, when you just take a look at the unit level
standpoint. So there's a natural decline in the total number of units as you go from Q3 into Q4 based on just the holiday
shift. Now, we're going to move – if you take a look at Q4 versus Q3, there's a higher percentage of Skylake, which is
our sixth-generation Core, as we talked about. And we think there will be a richer mix as you move into there. So that's
kind of how Q4 was laid out.
And then, as we said, we're not really talking about 2016 yet until the Investor Meeting. But I think we should separate
out the CapEx. We've predicted a seasonal Q4, but with a mix that is remaining rich, but that richness is based on both
the great products that we've been producing, but also a richer percentage of Skylake/Intel sixth-gen Core.
<A - Stacy J. Smith>: Yeah. I guess, I'd just add. I would just zoom out a little bit on the math. We exited Q3 with
healthy worldwide supply chain inventories. We actually think we probably under-shipped the market a little bit in Q3.
And we're forecasting a seasonal Q4. And there's a little bit of movement in each of the businesses, but nothing that
really moves the numbers. So to us it feels like a pretty natural forecast in support of all the data we've seen.
<A - Mark H. Henninger>: Thanks, Stacy.
<Q - Stacy Aaron Rasgon>: Thank you, guys.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from John Pitzer of Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
<Q - John William Pitzer>: Yeah. Good afternoon, guys. Thanks for letting me ask a question. Stacy, maybe just a
follow-up on the September quarter, you said in your prepared comments that platform for client was up about 3% on a
volume basis. Can you help me better understand what desktops and notebooks did sequentially? Because if I kind of
wreck the year-over-years, I'm getting up high-single-digit to low-double-digit sequentially. Is that right?
And then, just relative to your comment earlier about inventory, how does that jibe with sort of a lean inventory? Or do
you actually feel like Skylake is producing a build or will continue to produce a build into the calendar fourth quarter?
<A - Mark H. Henninger>: Yeah. I think that – so we saw units up some in Q3. But I think the year-over-year
compare probably tells the tale a little bit better. We were down 14%, 15% between notebooks and desktops. When you
compare that against what the third-parties would say happened with the TAM, they're kind of down in the more
high-single-digits. So I think we under-shipped a bit relative to the overall TAM. And when we go do our test of
inventory, we come back with healthy inventory levels, if that's what you're getting at.
<Q - John William Pitzer>: Well, I guess, what I'm getting at is just a seasonal Q4 with a new product launch and
under-shipping in Q3. I would assume that Q4 could actually be better. I guess, I don't know what I'm missing relative
to that math.
Company Name: Intel
Company Ticker: INTC US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 12
<A - Mark H. Henninger>: Maybe you and Stacy should go arm-wrestle, and between the two of you can figure out
whether we're too high or too low. So, yeah, I mean, there could be headwinds and tailwinds as we go into the quarter
as always. But we're kind of looking at it saying we've got healthy inventory levels and we're going into the seasonally
stronger selling season. It feels like we're kind of balanced in terms of the risks and opportunities.
<Q - John William Pitzer>: That's helpful. And then, guys, my follow-up. Brian, just on the Data Center Group,
you're going to be a little bit shy on the long-term target this year because of macro. Do you have to rethink what that
long-term growth rate target should be? And I guess, more importantly, at what point is the enterprise part of the
business small enough because that's actually the most macro-sensitive where these macro issues won't kind of be this
significant?
<A - Brian M. Krzanich>: Sure. So I don't want to – I'm not going to go rethink the long-term growth. We are still
very confident that we can beat this over the long term growing at the mid-teens level. You really have to take a look at
this, John, over a longer period of time. You can't live in this industry by a quarter. For example, we've talked about
enterprise is a bit weak right now. And the cloud has been basically helping us in growing at a rate faster than we'd
even projected as we entered this year. But what typically happens in the fourth quarter is the cloud – enterprises tend
not to do large purchases in the fourth quarter.
Now, they have in the past at times, but in general, don't because really fourth quarter is their selling season. And so
they don't want to disrupt their systems during that quarter. And then it comes back in the first half of the follow-on
year. So there's always this lumpiness to this quarter-by-quarter. And you have to look over a much longer period of
time.
Your second kind of question built into that is when does cloud and networking and the rest of the infrastructure work,
because I really want to remind people that what we're doing in the Data Center is not only just growing cloud versus
enterprise, but we're driving hard into networking. We're driving. Next year, you'll see our silicon photonics. You'll see
FPGAs with Altera. So it's a broad spectrum of products as we increase our footprint in the Data Center. We haven't set
a date for when those are big enough that they offset enterprise, but it's not long. It's in the near future that we can
offset enterprise weakness.
<Q - John William Pitzer>: Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Jim Covello of Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
<Q - James V. Covello>: Great, guys. Thanks so much for taking the question. I'll let Stacy and John arm-wrestle over
the near-term stuff. I'll ask a couple longer-term things. First, I guess, Brian, on the NAND market. Obviously, this has
been a terrific market for you guys. There's a lot going on there. There's a lot of growth opportunities commensurate
with what's going on in the Data Center. There seems to be a lot of consternation next year about which of the various
players are going to do what and potential consolidation on the industry. Maybe you could give us an update on how
the NAND market looks to you as you go out to 2016 and where you see the opportunities and what kind of
investments you think you'll need to make there.
<A - Brian M. Krzanich>: Sure, Jim. So let's start at kind of the macro level and then work our way down. As you
said, the Non-Volatile business has been very good to us and it's grown at a better rate than we'd even anticipated as we
entered the year. You need to remember that more than 80% of what we sell are enterprise SSDs that are going into
those data centers. So we've made a very tight connection. When we think of our NAND business, we think of it tied
very closely to our Data Center business. And, in fact, we try and build a lot of synergy in the products, the efficiencies,
the performance of these products as we go to market, and in how we go talk to our customers.
If I take a look at next year, it's really the ramp of 3D, our 3D NAND's process. And that we believe gives us a
performance and cost advantage over the competition. We're very comfortable with where we are positioned for next
year from that perspective.
Company Name: Intel
Company Ticker: INTC US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 12
In addition, we talked about our 3D XPoint, which is really a transformational product for the memory market. What
we said was we'd start shipping limited engineering samples end of this year. You've seen on stage, we showed at IDF
and a couple other places now, working product with benchmarks. We'll continue to show more and more of those as
we go through this year. And we'll start shipping product for that next year.
So as I look out in next year and beyond, it really becomes the 3D NAND driving the real high volume, better cost and
performance enterprise SSDs, and then 3D XPoint really transforming how memory and storage work together. And
again, we'll target the Data Center and have that very close cross-linked between these. But I think 3D XPoint, you'll
actually see in many, many other products as the value of both memory, storage and performance start to play out in a
variety of applications, IoT, mobile, all over the place.
<Q - James V. Covello>: That's very helpful. Thank you. Maybe for a follow-up, I'll kind of ask about one of the other
longer-term drivers that you've talked about, the foundry business to kind of offset what you expect to be continued
declines in the PC unit business over time or continued slow growth in that business over time. So you've talked about
NAND. You've also talked about foundry. Could you give us a little bit of an update on the thoughts around foundry?
Bringing Altera in-house, notwithstanding, do you still see incremental growth opportunities in that space even though
a lot of them you can't really talk about too much publicly?
<A - Brian M. Krzanich>: Yeah. We do see incremental growth. And as you said, there are deals we have that we
cannot talk about publicly. But I do see it still as a growth business. It's not going to be one of those, ones that's going
to largely move the needle in the next couple of years. But we do see continued growth and continued acquisition of
customers in that space.
<Q - James V. Covello>: Very helpful. Thanks so much. Good luck.
<A - Mark H. Henninger>: Thanks, Jim.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Vivek Arya of Bank of America. Your line is open.
<Q - Vivek Arya>: Thanks for letting me ask a question. For my first question, I'm wondering what the current run
rate of losses is tied to your division, which, I guess, formerly was called Mobile Communications Group. So I know
last year, on a quarterly basis, you were losing about $1 billion a quarter in MCG. And this year, you have made
improvements, so $800 million for the year. So on a quarterly basis, Stacy, is it reasonable to assume that the loss there
is less than $900 million? So as you make improvements, it continues to be a source of accretion to your EPS?
<A - Stacy J. Smith>: So I just want to be clear. We've completely reorganized. We no longer have the MCG segment.
So when we talk about this, we want to talk about it in the context of the commitments we made to improve the overall
profitability of our mobile business broadly. We're well on track to the commitment that we made at the beginning of
the year. As Brian said, we've kind of zoomed up to having achieved 75% of the overall target.
I did say it was a little bit backend loaded. So if you were doing your quarterly math, you'd probably get to a little bit –
you wouldn't be linear. You get to a little bit of a bigger reduction as we move into the back half relative to the first
half, because the contra-revenue dollars really ramped up for us as we brought SoFIA into the marketplace and that was
more of a back half phenomenon for us.
<Q - Vivek Arya>: Got it. And then, for my follow-up, could you remind us of what is the Core mix right now, and as
a percentage of your PC clients and where can it get to? And is that how we should think about what determines the
upper limit on when client ASPs start to saturate because pricing has been an important part of – in the stability in your
PC division?
<A - Brian M. Krzanich>: So we'll go through some of the mix stuff in the Investor Meeting in November. At the
heart of your question, what's driving the upside, I really think a lot of it is segmentation. And it's interesting. If you use
Company Name: Intel
Company Ticker: INTC US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 12
our desktop business as a proxy, we've been in a low unit growth environment for a while. It's kind of slightly down,
slightly up kind of thing, this year down a bit more. But we've managed to maintain the profitability of that business
because we're seeing a lot more segmentation of the business.
You still have the first time buyer PCs that happen in emerging markets, but increasingly there's relatively expensive
PCs that provide a lot of value to the consumer, and all-in-ones. And we now see dedicated gaming PCs that are doing
quite well, and those kinds of things. So I think the future for us is more segmentation of our product line. I think that
helps us both from the standpoint of volume mix and should give us some opportunities in terms of pricing.
<Q - Vivek Arya>: Right. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Doug Freedman of Sterne Agee. Your line is open.
<Q - Douglas Freedman>: Hi, guys. Thanks very much for taking my question. I'm going to really follow up on one
that's already been asked, but see if I can get a little bit more clarity. First off, congrats on getting the 75% target of the
$800 million savings. Do you want to introduce a new target given that you are so far along in this? And just to try to
get a handle on how much more cost reduction or what your strategy is really going forward with the mobility side of
the business. The tablet units look like they did soften here. So my question really is what's your target for your
mobility IP?
<A - Brian M. Krzanich>: So let me start with a bit about the strategy and then we can then lay out. I think Stacy gave
you some indication that we're well on our way. And, in fact, if you take a look at, it's non-linear. So we should be
handily getting to $800 million and probably slightly above that number. How much, we're not going to forecast that
right now. Our strategy really, when you – and as we get into the Investor Meeting, we'll talk about next year. But you
can assume we'll have another goal next year where we do another reduction and prove the P&L. That's fundamental as
we said we're going to go into this business to make money and we have to get there. So that is absolutely the
fundamental strategy.
That said, what we said around mobility is that on tablets we'd pretty much keep our share and our position in the
market relatively equal to where with it was. I think everybody sees tablets have shrunk this year as a category. And so
we've been careful about not chasing the bottom as prices dropped figuring out where the value is, where we can go in
and make a little bit of money and actually add some innovation. So you're going to see some tablets as we go towards
the holidays with things like RealSense in them that allow people new usages and new applications. And as we go into
2016, you'll see more of that.
On phones, it's the same thing. We're being even more careful there, doing partnerships with people, where we can go
in, we can provide innovation and the right cost model, make some money for both us and our partners. And we've
been very, very careful. And that's why, we've actually said our bigger and longer-term strategy there is modems to the
general phone market and then partnerships for specific products. And that's the Spreadtrum and Rockchip partnerships
that we have right now.
<Q - Douglas Freedman>: Great. Terrific. Thanks for all that color. If I could similarly, looking over at the Data
Center business, clearly cloud's been quite an area of strength. I think investors continue to be concerned about your
new competitors entering that market, some people talking about the progress ARM has made. Can you maybe talk
about how you're feeling about your competitive positioning against that threat? Thank you.
<A - Brian M. Krzanich>: Oh, absolutely. All these markets, there's always been a competitor and whether you look
in the PC market or whether you look in the data center market or any of these, there's been competitors. We've worked
our way up in this position. And our goal is always to continuously push the product performance. And the way we
think about it is, is really what does it take to replace ourselves even in this market, especially, the data center. How do
we do a total cost of ownership such that it pays to go to our next generation in both footprint, cost of operation and
performance.
Company Name: Intel
Company Ticker: INTC US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 12
All of those things are what we drive. That and system integration, right, the whole Rack Scale Architecture and doing
system integration such that it's simpler, quicker and cheaper for people to install a cloud-based system. We really
focus on those and just really trying to have the best performance we can in that space. And there will always be
competitors and our goal is to just consistently outperform. And there will be new entrants and old entrants all along
trying to win share away from us. And that's going to be a norm.
<Q - Douglas Freedman>: Great. And congratulations on the strong results.
<A - Brian M. Krzanich>: Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from David Wong of Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
<Q - David M. Wong>: Thanks very much. Your Client Computing Group, the operating margins you reported
jumped several percentage points in the September quarter. Can you give us some idea as to what you expect going
forward in the near term? And also, do you have a long-term goal for operating margin for this group?
<A - Stacy J. Smith>: So we don't forecast at that level, David. On a long-term view, we'll – as we always do, we'll
give you some thoughts in terms of what the long-term growth potential and overall profitability goals are when we get
to November. In general, what you're seeing there when you look at it sequentially is you're seeing a quarter where
volume was up some. And we had a nice rich mix as we launched Skylake. So that helped a lot from the standpoint of
profitability quarter-on-quarter.
<Q - David M. Wong>: Okay. Great. And are there any new major product launches for Data Center we might expect
this year in the remaining months?
<A - Brian M. Krzanich>: Nothing that we haven't already made public, no.
<Q - David M. Wong>: Okay. Great. Thanks very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Romit Shah of Nomura. Your line is open.
<Q - Romit J. Shah>: Yes. Thank you. I had a question on the PC market. Brian, every year, we're looking for –
calling for a bottom in PCs. And last year even though the units were better than expected, they were still down. This
year's obviously been weaker. But now we're at the point where you look at the supply chain as you guys characterize
it, it's fairly lean. You've got a new operating system from Windows plus Skylake. And so it just seems like all the
pieces are there for PCs to finally bottom, but I wanted to gauge your confidence.
<A - Brian M. Krzanich>: I guess, my answer to that would be I do believe that we're in a unique situation where we
have, as you said, a new operating system with Windows 10. We have our sixth-generation Core Skylake in place. We
have a lot of innovation from the OEMs. We have some additional products like our innovation like RealSense. You'll
see some unique memory architectures next year, even 3D XPoint gets into this space. But I do think that there's a good
point for optimism.
That said, some of these transitions are going to take some time. And so I'm very cautious with people to say how fast
and when. So if you take a look at it, there's the ability to do Windows 10 upgrades today, but actual on-shelf new
system isn't till later this month. So it's not until later this month that, actually, you can walk into the store and get an
on-shelf system with Win 10.
Enterprises will go, I think, quicker to Win 10 than some of the prior generations of Windows, but still, enterprise takes
a while to do these kinds of conversions. So it will be into next year, those conversions. So I do see that this is a great
Company Name: Intel
Company Ticker: INTC US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 12
opportunity and that we should see some tailwinds pushing us in the PC market, but it's going to be over time. It's not
going to be, boy, next quarter it jumps. So I kind of want to lay out that it's going to be over this next year or so that it
takes to get this transition through.
<A - Stacy J. Smith>: If I can just add, as Brian and I talk about the business and think about it, I think this quarter is a
great illustration point of how we view it. In a time period where PC units are down in the high-single-digits or the
TAM level, we still get enough growth from the Data Center and the Memory business and the Internet of Things to
pretty much tread water in terms of revenue growth, right. And you can see it in our results in Q3. In fact, you can see it
in our results for the year.
If PC units are down in the mid-single-digits, we actually grow at a pretty fast pace. And if we get through while the
PC units are flat, we're growing at a very fast pace. That's kind of fixing the growth rate for everything else, but it's a
good way to think about what our strategy is and how we're driving the business. So we don't really need unit growth to
grow the company at a fast pace, because we're much less dependent on the PC segment than we've historically been.
And our growth really comes from the Data Center, it's a very large business. And then we're investing in things like
Memory and the Internet of Things business that we think will add some growth to that.
<Q - Romit J. Shah>: That's helpful. Thank you.
<A - Mark H. Henninger>: Operator, I think we have time for two more questions.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Ambrish Srivastava with BMO Capital Markets. Your line is open.
<Q - Ambrish Srivastava>: Hi. Thank you, Mark. Thanks for squeezing me in. I just had a question on the gross
margin, Stacy. I'm looking at the year-over-year comparisons for similar revenue run rate and gross margin is going to
be down about 300 bps. Is the biggest offsetting factor on a year-over-year basis, is the startup cost or – because unit
costs should be getting lower, or am I not right?
<A - Stacy J. Smith>: No, the biggest difference compared to a year ago – so if you look back to Q3 of 2014, if
memory serves, I think we were at 65%, we were 63% in Q3 of this year. And the units are down some from last year.
We've talked about this is a weaker TAM. So that's one piece. But the bigger piece is 14-nanometer costs. And you're
right. We're coming down the cost curve pretty rapidly on 14-nanometer, but it's becoming a richer and richer
percentage of the overall shipment mix and 14-nanometer still is more than 22-nanometer. And so we've seen a little bit
of a mix-up in terms of costs as we've worked our way through 2015.
<Q - Ambrish Srivastava>: Got it. Got it. So the cadence of the usual Tick-Tock, the cadence of the startup cost
shouldn't change as much. In Q1 we should see be seeing an increase in startup costs for 10-nanometer, correct?.
<A - Stacy J. Smith>: We're actually seeing a bit of an increase in startup cost starting in Q4. If you look at the Q4
margin reconciliation, you start to see that increase in startup cost.
<Q - Ambrish Srivastava>: So it shifted more to Q4 and there won't be as much in Q1. Is that the right takeaway
then?
<A - Stacy J. Smith>: Well, you keep in mind that the elevation of startup cost tends to last way more than one
quarter. I'm just saying you're seeing the front edge of the elevated 10-nanometer startup cost is kind of starting as we
speak.
<Q - Ambrish Srivastava>: Got it. Okay. Thanks for the clarification. Thank you.
<A - Mark H. Henninger>: Thanks, Ambrish.
Company Name: Intel
Company Ticker: INTC US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 12
Operator
Thank you. Our final question comes from Michael McConnell of Pacific Crest Securities. Your line is open.
<Q - Michael C. McConnell>: Thank you. Just regarding DCG again, I think I recall in Q2 the weakness in enterprise
was largely in China. Just in that bucket, are you starting to see the weakness spread out into different geographic
regions? Or is it still mostly isolated in China relative to your original expectations?
<A - Stacy J. Smith>: Yeah. I think we said in Q2 that it was more pronounced in China, but it was general across the
enterprise. And that is consistent with what we see now. I just want to come back to what Brian said earlier. The overall
enterprise segment is weak. And when you look at it that correlates very closely for us over time with GDP growth
rates. And the GDP growth rates are quite a bit less than we thought when we started the year.
We're offsetting much of that – in fact, we're offsetting most of that by a cloud growth rate that's significantly more
than we thought when we started the year. So general macroeconomic weakness, it's pronounced in China, but we see it
elsewhere in the enterprise segment being offset by, I'd say, torrid growth rates in cloud computing and we'll share
more on that when we get to November.
<Q - Michael C. McConnell>: Okay. Great. And then, just my final follow-up would be, just relative to PC end
demand, as far as you can tell the early part of this quarter obviously, we'll get more signals here over the next month or
so. What are you seeing right now at the end demand side, not necessarily the channel inventory ups and downs?
<A - Brian M. Krzanich>: Yeah. We can't give you [indiscernible] (46:40) talk about the current quarter in this call.
<A - Stacy J. Smith>: I would just say everything that we knew as of 1 o'clock this afternoon is reflected in our
forecast.
<A - Brian M. Krzanich>: Yeah.
<Q - Michael C. McConnell>: Great. Thank you.
<A - Stacy J. Smith>: Thank you.
Mark H. Henninger
Thanks, Mike. All right. Thank you all for joining us today. Amanda, please go ahead and wrap up the call.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude today's program. You may
all disconnect. Everyone have a great day.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.