Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 22
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Louise Mehrotra
• Gary J. Pruden
• Dominic J. Caruso
Other Participants
• Larry Biegelsen
• David Ryan Lewis
• Kristen M. Stewart
• Michael J. Weinstein
• Vamil K. Divan
• Glenn J. Novarro
• Danielle J. Antalffy
• Jami Rubin
• Damien Conover
• Jayson T. Bedford
• Jeffrey Holford
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning and welcome to Johnson & Johnson's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. All participants
will be in listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session of the conference. [Operator Instructions] I would
now like to turn the conference call over to Johnson & Johnson. You may begin.
Louise Mehrotra
Good morning and welcome. I'm Louise Mehrotra, Vice President of Investor Relations for Johnson & Johnson, and it
is my pleasure this morning to review our business results for the third quarter of 2015. Joining me on the call today are
Dominic Caruso, Vice President, Finance, and Chief Financial Officer; and Gary Pruden, Worldwide Chairman,
Medical Devices. A few logistics before we get into the details. This review is being made available via webcast
accessible through the Investor Relations sections of the Johnson & Johnson website at investor.jnj.com.
I'll begin by briefly reviewing the third quarter for the corporation and our three business segments. Next, Gary will
discuss our Medical Device business and the strategy for growth. Lastly, Dominic will provide additional commentary
on the results, review the income statement and discuss guidance for 2015. We will then open the call to your
questions. We expect the call to last approximately 90 minutes.
Included with the press release that was issued earlier this morning is a schedule of sales for key products and/or
businesses to facilitate updating your models. These schedules are available on the Johnson & Johnson website as is the
press release. Please note we will be using a presentation to complement today's commentary. The presentation is also
available on our website.
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 22
Before we begin, let me remind you that some of the statements made during this review are or may be considered
forward-looking statements. The 10-K for the fiscal year 2014 and the company's subsequent filings identify certain
factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking
statements made today. The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new
information or future events or developments. Our SEC filings, including the 10-K, are available through the company
and on our website.
During the review, non-GAAP financial measures are used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business
performance. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered replacements for and should be read
together with GAAP results. Tables reconciling these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available
in the schedules accompanying the press release and on the Investor Relations sections of the Johnson & Johnson
website.
Now, I would like to review our results for the third quarter of 2015. Worldwide sales to customers were $17.1 billion
for the third quarter of 2015, down 7.4% versus third quarter 2014. On an operational basis, sales were up 0.8% and
currency had a negative impact of 8.2%. In the U.S., sales were down 0.6%. In regions outside the U.S., our operational
growth was 2.1% while the effective currency exchange rates negatively impacted our reported results by 15.8%. On an
operational basis, both Europe and western hemisphere, excluding the U.S., grew 2.7% while the Asia-Pacific Africa
region grew by 1.2%. Growth in all regions was negatively impacted by hepatitis C competition. Excluding the net
impact of acquisitions and divestitures and hepatitis C sales, underlying operational growth was 5.6% worldwide, 7.7%
in the U.S., and 3.8% outside the U.S.
Turning now to earnings, net earnings were $3.4 billion and earnings per share were $1.20 versus $1.66 a year ago. As
referenced in the table reconciling non-GAAP measures, 2015 third quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude after
tax amortization expense of $437 million and a charge of $377 million for after tax special items. 2014 third quarter net
earnings were adjusted to exclude a net gain of $144 million. Dominic will discuss special items in his remarks.
Excluding amortization expense and special items for both periods, adjusted net earnings for the current quarter were
$4.2 billion, and adjusted diluted earnings per share were $1.49, representing decreases of 9.4% and 7.5%, respectively,
as compared to the same period in 2014. Currency translation significantly impacted net earnings. On an operational
basis, adjusted diluted earnings per share grew 1.2%.
Turning now to business segment highlights. Please note percentages quoted represent operational sales change in
comparison to the third quarter of 2014, unless otherwise stated, and therefore excludes the impact of currency
translation. I'll begin with the Consumer segment. Worldwide Consumer segment sales of $3.3 billion increased 3.1%,
with U.S. sales up 8.9%, while outside the U.S. sales grew 0.4%. Excluding the net impact of acquisitions and
divestitures, underlying growth was 4% worldwide, 8.9% in the U.S., and 1.5% outside the U.S. Growth was driven by
U.S. OTC and skin care, women's health outside the U.S., and oral care worldwide.
OTC sales results were driven by strong U.S. growth of 22.4%, with analgesics in the U.S. up nearly 29% due to
increased share, complemented by the reintroduction of Tylenol Arthritis, including initial launch inventory. In the
U.S., adult analgesic market share was approximately 12.5%, up from approximately 11% a year ago, while U.S.
pediatric share was 44.5%, up from 41% a year ago. Additional contributors to growth in the U.S. were seasonal
inventory build for Zyrtec and an initial stocking for relaunched digestive health products. Results outside the U.S.
were negatively impacted by the timing of the seasonal inventory build for upper respiratory products. As we noted last
quarter, the build occurred in the second quarter this year versus the third quarter last year.
In U.S. skincare, market share increases and a seasonal inventory build drove strong growth for Aveeno and
Neutrogena. New product launches and successful marketing campaigns drove the results for Listerine in oral care and
women's health products outside the U.S.
Moving now to our Pharmaceutical segment. Worldwide sales of $7.7 billion decreased 0.3%, with U.S. sales down
4.5% and sales outside the U.S. up 5.5%. New competitors in hepatitis C significantly impacted sales results. Excluding
sales of hepatitis C products, Olysio and Incivo, as well as the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, underlying
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 22
growth worldwide, U.S. and outside the U.S. was approximately 10.1%, 11.5%, and 8.5%, respectively. Important
contributors to growth were Invokana/Invokamet, Imbruvica, Simponi, Stelara, Invega Sustenna or Xeplion, Prezista
and Prezcobix, Concerta, Xarelto and Zytiga, partially offset by lower export sales of Remicade. Strong momentum and
market share increases drove results for Invokana/Invokamet. In the U.S., Invokana/Invokamet achieved 6.3% total
prescription share, or TRx, within the defined market of type 2 diabetes, excluding insulin and metformin, up from 6%
in the second quarter of 2015. TRx with endocrinologist was over 13% for the quarter and over 5.5% in the primary
care. Invokana has greater than 80% preferred access across commercial and greater than 90% for Part D plans.
Strong patient uptake with new indications, approvals, and demonstrated efficacy drove results for Imbruvica in the
U.S. Imbruvica is the leader in both new and total patient regimen share in second line CLL and MCL. Outside the
U.S., results were driven primarily by Europe, with strong patient uptake, particularly in Germany, France, and the
U.K. Imbruvica is now approved in 60 countries.
Stelara and combined Simponi, Simponi Aria, achieved strong growth across all the major regions due to robust market
growth, combined with increased penetration of Simponi Aria. Invega Sustenna or Xeplion achieved strong results due
primarily to increased market share, while Concerta growth was primarily due to a therapeutic equivalence
reclassification of generics by the FDA last November.
As expected during the quarter, we saw generic entrees for Invega tablets in the U.S. We have launched an authorized
generic of Invega. Strong results for Prezista were driven by the launch earlier this year of Prezcobix. Continued share
growth drove results for Xarelto sales, with TRx for the quarter in the U.S. anticoagulant market of 15.8%, up 1.5
points from a year ago. Xarelto is broadly reimbursed, with over 90% of commercial and Medicare Part D patients
covered at the lowest branded product co-pay.
As an update, during the quarter, we received several Paragraph IV notifications from generic manufacturers advising
that they filed abbreviated new drug applications with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of Xarelto
in the U.S. before the expiration of the relevant patents listed in the Orange Book. The composition of matter patent
owned by our partner Bayer is expected to expire in December 2020. However, a patent term extension has been filed,
which, if fully granted, would extend the patent to mid 2024. Further, if we are granted pediatric exclusivity, this would
provide an additional six months to the existing marketing exclusivity or patent term. We, together with Bayer, will
vigorously defend the patents and have filed suit against the generic applicants.
Strong growth of the combined metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer market, at over 12.5%, drove the results for
Zytiga in the U.S. Zytiga share was 27.1% of that market, down approximately one point on a sequential basis due to
increased competition. Outside the U.S., Zytiga achieved strong growth in Asia and Latin America, which was partially
offset by lower sales in Europe due to increased competition. Remicade export sales were down over 40%, with
two-thirds of that decline attributed to sales to our partners in Japan due to an inventory drawdown in preparation for a
label expansion for a new indication. Additionally, the weakening of the euro and the loss of exclusivity in Europe has
negatively impacted results.
I'll now review the Medical Devices segment results. Worldwide Medical Devices segment sales of $6.1 billion
increased 0.9%. U.S. sales increased 2%, while sales outside U.S. increased 0.1%. Excluding the net impact of
acquisitions and divestitures, underlying growth was 1.3% worldwide, with the U.S. up 2% and growth of 0.8% outside
the U.S. Growth was driven by vision care, specialty surgery, and cardiovascular care, partially offset by lower sales in
orthopedics and price declines in the diabetes care. Vision care results were strong across the major regions, driven by
the introduction of new products. Market growth, share gains in certain segments and new product introduction drove
the results for specialty surgery growth, with worldwide biosurgery growth of over 9%, energy growth outside the U.S.
were approximately 6%, and worldwide mentor growth of nearly 13%. Cardiovascular care growth was driven by 9%
worldwide increase in our electrophysiology business due to strong sales of the ThermoCool SmartTouch catheter.
Solid growth in the U.S. for orthopedics was offset by lower sales outside the U.S. Sales outside the U.S. were
negatively impacted by softer demand and a reduction in inventory levels, primarily in China. The introduction earlier
this year of the TFNA nail drove U.S. trauma growth of approximately 5%. Additional contributors to the U.S. growth
were strong double digit sales of Orthovisc and Monovisc, 3% growth in hips due to our primary stem platform, and
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 22
2% growth in knees due to the success of the ATTUNE platform. In the U.S., positive mix from new product
introductions partially offset negative price in the major categories.
That concludes the segment highlights for Johnson & Johnson's third quarter of 2015. It is now my pleasure to turn the
call over to Gary Pruden. Gary?
Gary J. Pruden
Thanks, Louise. I'm pleased to be here today to share with you the terrific work that's taking place at our Johnson &
Johnson Medical Device group and why we're excited for the future. As you recall, Sandi Peterson provided an update
on our consumer-facing medical devices in the second quarter. So my discussion today is focused on our Surgery,
Orthopedics, and Cardiovascular businesses. I'll provide our perspective on the market, which we're operating; our
unique advantages; our performance through the third quarter; and most important, our strategy to win.
Before we begin, I thought it will be helpful to provide some framing around the business and the quarter performance
overall. Our Medical Device business, excluding the consumer-facing medical device business and OCD, has grown
1.8% on a year-to-date operational basis. When you adjust for the women's health and Cordis business, in addition to
several non-recurring impacts on our business, the underlying year-to-date operational growth was 2.8%. Our stated
goal is to lead in the categories in which we compete. Today, across our portfolio, we have strong platforms such as
endocutters and biosurgery that are outperforming market growth. We have substantial platforms, which we see
growing slowly, such as wound closure, where we have roughly an 80% share; and we have identified areas that
require further attention and infusion of innovation.
We believe we have sound strategies to achieve our leadership goals by driving growth through enhanced innovation
and excellence in execution designed to get us to or above market growth in the next 12 to 24 months.
In medical devices, we've been on the leading edge of industry consolidation and our conviction has grown even
stronger that our breadth, depth and scale can be leveraged to make a difference to those we serve. Throughout my
remarks this morning, I will share examples of how the Medical Device businesses of Johnson & Johnson are stronger
together and how, together, we will accelerate growth and innovation.
We are competing in an attractive global market growing at roughly 4% where we hold leadership positions in surgery,
orthopedics and cardiovascular electrophysiology. Demographics favor continued market growth as populations age,
the incidence of chronic diseases grow, and more people gain access to care globally. As both customers and providers
seek to improve efficiency, effectiveness and manage escalating costs, consolidation has accelerated, both within our
global customer base and the industry. As one medical device group, we enjoy unique market advantages today starting
with a broad portfolio of medical offerings, surgery, orthopedics and cardiovascular. And we have the financial and
industry strength of Johnson & Johnson behind us that enables us to invest in growth platforms and bring
comprehensive solutions to bear on global healthcare issues.
In emerging markets we have a substantial presence which delivered roughly 20% of our revenue through the third
quarter of this year. Our annualized sales in China alone continue to expand and currently exceed $1 billion
year-to-date. We have a strong leadership position in categories such as trauma, minimally invasive surgery and sutures
that help facilitate a tip of the sword strategy to establish leadership scale in emerging markets where we can then
expand our key growth platforms. And finally, we compete from a position of strength. The number one or two market
positions in virtually every category in which we do business. As one, Johnson & Johnson Medical Device group align
to a common strategy, we will accelerate the benefits of these advantages going forward.
Our sales, year-to-date, were driven by the strong performances of our electrophysiology, endocutter, biosurgery and
international energy businesses, complemented by our solid results in Joint Reconstruction and Sports Medicine
businesses. Partially offsetting this growth were lower sales of spine and women's health products. Our 2015 results
continue to be impacted by the relatively soft global market conditions. We are seeing the market in the U.S. improve
but [indiscernible] (17:54) growth remains challenged and the emerging markets have slowed this year. We expect
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 22
these soft market conditions and pricing challenges across the board to continue.
While we have strong category leaders across surgery, cardiovascular and orthopedics, we also have some
opportunities to address platform challenges and reallocate resources to high-growth opportunities in some of our
platforms like trauma. In trauma, we've seen mixed results in our performance. This has been an important area of
focus since acquisition, however, we've seen a lower level of innovation though, due to a number of factors, including
the significant remediation efforts to bring Synthes up to Johnson & Johnson quality standards and the overall
integration efforts during the last few years.
Going forward, we are shifting more of our focus and resources to deliver new innovative products and target faster
growing categories within the market, such as elective foot and ankle. The recent success of our new femoral nail
system, TFN-Advanced, demonstrates receptivity in this category to new and meaningful innovation. We also continue
to strengthen the trauma franchise capabilities in high-growth markets such as the U.S. and China. Additionally in
trauma, as across the entire portfolio, we recognize the value of strategic partnerships in helping us to achieve our
aspirations. Through a new five-year cooperation agreement between DePuy Synthes and the AO Foundation, we will
continue to develop innovative products and solutions, train more surgeons to improve standards of care and treat more
patients globally.
With respect to the broader portfolio management, earlier this month, we completed the divestiture of the Cordis
business. Through portfolio discipline, we will continue to exit categories that do not fit our strategy and evaluate our
portfolio to identify those growth categories for heavier R&D investment, external partnerships, and L&A.
In summary, we are sharpening our focus and investment on priority platforms that we believe will drive the majority
of our growth. As I noted earlier, roughly 20% of our growth came from emerging markets and more than 50% of our
revenue, year-to-date, has come from outside the U.S. In line with what you are hearing broadly about the economic
slowdown of emerging markets, we see that too, but we are maintaining nice growth across our business in these
markets. Consistent with that, over the next five years, we continue to expect emerging markets to drive disproportional
growth opportunities as access to quality healthcare continues to expand. The World Health Organization estimates that
nearly a third of the world's global disease burden could be addressed through surgery, yet nearly five billion people
continue to lack access to safe, timely and affordable surgical care. Our goal is to reach more patients and restore more
lives. We aim to achieve this through meaningful innovation and efforts to expand access to care including continued
physician training. We are confident that the results will be improved standards of care for patients around the world
and sales growth above industry rates while maintaining industry-leading competitive margins.
We have a clear strategy to achieve this. Accelerate growth in priority platforms through innovation and launch
excellence, sustain growth in our core platforms, leverage our breadth and scale through novel commercial models and
invest in areas of significant unmet needs. This is a strategy we believe will deliver more value for customers and
patients and for our company and shareholders. Our strategy starts with our three industry categories of surgery,
orthopedics and cardiovascular.
Across the portfolio, we have identified six priority growth platforms in which we disproportionately invest to
accelerate growth. These are the areas where the medical need continues to be significant and our capabilities are
strong. In surgery, our priority platforms are endocutters and energy. Not only are we getting good response from our
customers on these platforms, which you are seeing in the numbers, but we are winning top awards for the design of
innovative solutions that benefit the user, the environment and the business. You can see that we flag robotics as one of
our key growth platforms here in surgery and I'll provide a little more on that later.
In orthopedics, we are prioritizing our knees and trauma platforms. Knee replacement is the single largest elective
procedure in orthopedics. Over the next six years, the worldwide knee market is expected to grow at 3.8% CAGR to
around $9 billion. We believe we are well placed for growth with products and instruments from our ATTUNE
platform. And in cardiovascular, electrophysiology continue to deliver strong growth and is a priority platform for us
through our Biosense Webster business.
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 22
Additionally, across these broad categories, we are targeting four core platforms in which we'll sustain growth and
continue to invest in innovation. You can see here that in surgery, the foundation platforms in the space are biosurgery
and wound closure. In orthopedics, our hip business is a key platform, and finally, sterilization and disinfection. A core
capability that addresses the still significant unmet need for preventing infection or drives excessive costs and extends
healing time for patients.
Let me be clear. This focused strategy is not to say that we will not invest in our platforms where we compete. There
remain important areas for our future. We expect the combination of our priority and sustained growth platforms to
deliver a significant portion of our growth over the next five years. These platforms will be a major contributor to our
ability to grow above market in the coming years. We are focusing on the nine key geographies where we believe we
can drive the majority of our growth. These markets are being targeted based on strong healthcare utilization outlook,
large unmet need within Medical Devices and a strong Johnson & Johnson presence footprint within these markets.
Last year at our Medical Device Investor Business Review, we discussed 30 significant filings that were planned by the
end of 2016. We are well on the way to achieving that goal, which provides a consistent cadence of product
introductions all contributing to growth. Those new product innovations, combined with our aggressive reallocation of
resources I just discussed, complemented by our novel commercial models, positions us well to grow faster than the
market.
We have identified five disease states, five areas of unmet needs where we think we can make the greatest difference
through innovation, internally or externally sourced. They include surgical oncology, obesity, select cardiovascular
disease, osteoarthritis and osteoporosis. We're exploring what it would take a combination of products and end-to-end
solutions to make the critical difference for physicians and patients in addressing these needs. And we'll take advantage
of our strong balance sheet to invest in innovation that can make a difference in these areas as well as our priority
technology platforms.
We're taking a comprehensive approach to innovation and we're looking at this across a number of fronts, including our
go-to-market strategy. We're building novel commercial models that are adapting to market conditions and developing
new strategic partnerships with our customers around the world. I'll expand on that area shortly.
Our strategies are enhanced by the opportunity to leverage our scale and breadth. That begins with cross-selling
opportunities like the inclusion of DERMABOND PRINEO, our newest wound closure device designed for joint
procedures, now in the bag of our joint reconstruction sales consultants, giving time to closure in knee and hip
replacement procedures.
We are also implementing cross-portfolio procedural development like the new OsteoView device, which leverages the
HARMONIC technology from Ethicon to provide a soft tissue dissector exclusively designed for spine procedures and
to be sold by the DePuy Spine business.
Extends further to our enterprise customer group, which works on key relationships with major hospital systems who
look to leverage unique Johnson & Johnson capabilities in their medical device agreements. Some great examples are a
new relationship established with one of Germany's largest private hospital networks where we have a sole-source
contract for implants. Here in the U.S., we signed a five-year contract with the globally ranked academic medical center
at Johns Hopkins. We're also executing an exclusive partnership with a large multinational hospital system to share risk
and create value.
These are just some of the most recent examples on how our clinical strength and our organizational flexibility and
scope brought in excellent road map for how we're engaging in a new way with customers today.
Johnson & Johnson's substantial global footprint provides a foothold in key emerging markets and enables us to expand
access to training to more surgeons and care for more patients. We are using that advantage to drive innovations that
address unmet medical needs.
Working with our partners in the Pharmaceutical business, we recently announced the China lung center project which
will work to bring our medicines, technologies and resources to bear to address one of that country's leading causes of
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 22
death and ultimately advance the scientific knowledge and practice of lung surgery around the world.
Earlier this year, we first shared with you the news about our collaboration with Google Life Sciences in surgical
robotics. We continue to make progress on our goal of bringing to market a transformative surgical robotics platform.
Our shared vision is to give surgeons advanced analytics and surgical access intraoperatively with an improved and
flexible workflow dynamic in the OR and ultimately a reduced cost to serve.
Through our Ethicon franchise, we are contributing surgical know-how and developing advanced tools and instruments
for superior minimally invasive surgical technology. I'm pleased to share that we're in the development phase of the
platform now and are working with respected global experts in the field of robotics to advance the effort. Additional
information regarding our progress will be communicated in just the next few weeks.
The global robotics market is roughly $2 billion and we expect procedures to grow at a double-digit growth rate. That
said, today's robotics options are limited and are requiring substantial financial and infrastructure investment. And we
believe that through technology advancements and agile application, our path in surgically assisted robotics is one that
will best deliver what surgeons need.
Our solution not only aims to give surgeons a better procedural experience by improving comfort and patient proximity
but deliver a superior surgical experience through greater access and precision with the ability to make more informed
decisions through the entire procedure. We can see a future in which the surgeon is no longer isolated in the OR, but
through our system, we'll be able to connect to critical data, imaging and diagnostic information; information that will
help the surgeon make the best, most accurate decisions as and when they're needed.
The system is being developed with both the healthcare provider and the economic buyer in mind. As one Johnson &
Johnson Medical Device Group, we are well positioned in our largest businesses, to build on leadership positions as
these categories grow in response to changing demographics, evolving unmet medical needs and expanding access to
care.
Across our portfolio, we are focused on the categories where we'll grow and lead. We have exciting pipelines and a
renewed focus on launch excellence that would deliver a steady cadence of meaningful and differentiated innovation.
At the same time, we seek to advocate for patients by advancing the standard of care through strategic partnerships,
expanded educational access and pushing the boundaries of Medical Device product innovation. We're deploying the
comprehensive resources of Johnson & Johnson across the group which gives us unique leverage and we're getting a
positive response from customers. It is these strategic customer wins, combined with our more than 30 significant
product launches, that positions us to grow faster than our market and deliver value for the company and our
shareholders.
We look forward to telling you more about how our strategy is gaining traction at the Medical Device Business Review
next May.
Now, I'll turn it back to Dominic.
Dominic J. Caruso
Thanks, Gary, and good morning, everyone. Let me just say that I really enjoy working alongside Gary on the
management committee. He has clear strategies for accelerating growth through innovation and leveraging the breadth
and scale of Medical Devices through novel commercial models. We are confident that we will see steady progress as
the business, under Gary's leadership, implements very sound strategies for growth.
Just this morning, we announced a $10 billion share repurchase program. We are very well positioned to drive
continued growth in shareholder value with our exceptional financial strength, including our strong balance sheet and
cash flow. We have a proven track record of returning capital to shareholders through our regular quarterly dividend
complemented by share repurchases.
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 22
At the same time, we continue to invest in internal growth drivers and strengthen our robust pipeline, and we continue
to be active in accessing external opportunities to deploy our financial strength to further drive long-term value-creating
growth. We anticipate commencing a share repurchase program in the near term and intend to finance it through the
issuance of debt. Repurchase of stock through the program will be made at our discretion from time to time and the
repurchase program has no time limit and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Moving on to the review of the quarter, since Gary has just covered our Medical Device business, I would like to
highlight several additional developments from this quarter in our Pharmaceutical, Consumer, and the Consumer
Medical Device businesses.
Our Pharmaceutical business continued to deliver strong underlying growth, and as we discussed at our Pharmaceutical
Analyst Day earlier this year, our future cadence of new product filings is very robust. This quarter, we filed for
marketing authorization in Europe for daratumumab, a treatment for patients with relapsed refractory multiple
myeloma, which received accelerated assessment from the CHMP. Daratumumab was also granted priority review in
the U.S.
We've also submitted a supplemental new drug application to the U.S. FDA for IMBRUVICA for treatment of naïve
chronic lymphocytic leukemia and a marketing authorization in Europe for once-every-three-month formulation of
paliperidone palmitate.
In our Consumer business, we are back to a consistent cadence of new products as we continue to reintroduce products
back to the shelves, as well as innovate across our beloved brands that you all know and use every day. In particular,
the relaunch of Tylenol Arthritis is doing very well.
In our Vision Care business, we have anniversaried pricing adjustments that have impacted growth rates and have also
introduced new products such as 1-DAY ACUVUE MOIST MULTIFOCAL, 1-DAY ACUVUE DEFINE with
LACREON and ACUVUE OASYS for 1-WEEK Overnight. And in the fourth quarter, we are launching ACUVUE
OASYS 1-Day HydraLuxe, an important advancement in comfort for contact lens wearers.
I'll take the next few minutes to review our financial performance in the third quarter, and we'll also then provide
guidance for you to consider in refining your models for the balance of the year. We continue to execute well in our
portfolio management strategy, consistent with the plans we laid out for the year. We're pleased with the solid
underlying sales results and continued solid earnings per share performance thus far in 2015. We are well positioned
for continued growth in today's dynamic healthcare environment.
Turning to the next slide, you can see our condensed consolidated statement of earnings for the third quarter of 2015.
As we expected, direct comparisons to our third quarter of 2014 are challenging, due to the exceptional uptake of
OLYSIO that we benefited from last year, as well as currency headwinds. Our sales results for the third quarter of 2015
on an operational basis, excluding the impact of acquisition and divestitures, and excluding the impact of hep C
products, were robust, up 5.6% for the quarter. This is in line with the annual guidance we set for 2015, and stronger
than 2014 on a comparable basis.
Please now direct your attention to the box section of the schedule, where we have provided earnings adjusted to
exclude special items and intangible asset amortization expense. Adjusted net earnings were $4.2 billion in the quarter,
which are down 9.4% compared to the third quarter of 2014, and adjusted earnings per share of $1.49 versus $1.61 a
year ago are down 7.5%, having been significantly impacted by currency movements, as you may have expected.
I am pleased to say that the adjusted EPS results exceeded the mean of the analysts' estimates as published by First
Call. Excluding the net impact of translation currency, our operational earnings per share was $1.63, or up 1.2%.
In the quarter, we incurred after-tax special charges of $377 million, which included litigation expenses associated with
previously disclosed matters as outlined in our 10-Q filing, as well as intangible amortization expense of some $437
million on an after-tax basis, which in this quarter also included the write-down of an intangible asset related to a small
acquisition we made several years ago.
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 22
Now, let's take a few moments to talk about the other items on the statement of earnings. This quarter's results reflect
both the gain from our divestiture of the Splenda brand, the Heartland Food Products Group, which we closed at the
end of the third quarter, and additional investments we made in the business. As we said before, we would use any
gains from divestitures in 2015 to offset the lower earnings impact of not having the OLYSIO sales uptake we had in
2014 to provide some offset to currency headwinds while also allowing continued investments for future growth.
Cost of goods sold was 130 basis points higher than the same period last year, impacted by both lower net sale prices as
well as changes in product mix. Selling, marketing and administrative expenses were 29.7% of sales. As a reminder,
this line in the prior-year period included the additional year of the branded prescription drug fee, which we treated as a
special item last year.
Adjusting for that, this line item was 28.4% of sales last year. So this year's amount is 130 basis points higher as
compared to the adjusted third quarter of 2014. As we've previously noted, we're continuing to invest to drive growth in
our key brands. Prior-year percent of sales was artificially lower as well, since very little spending occurred in relation
to OLYSIO sales.
Our investment in research and development as a percent of sales was 12.6% in the quarter and 160 basis points higher
than the prior year, as we continue to make important investments in our pipeline for future growth. Interest expense
net of interest income was a little lower, reflecting higher earnings on our investments.
Other income and expense was a net charge of $420 million in the quarter, compared to a net gain of $1.3 billion in the
same period last year. Of course, this line item includes several special items in both years. Excluding those special
items, other income and expense was a net gain of approximately $400 million, compared to a net gain of
approximately $40 million in the prior-year period. This year's third quarter reflects the gain on a previously announced
divestiture of Splenda.
Excluding special items and intangible amortization expense, the effective tax rate for the nine-month period was
21.6%, compared to 22.1% in the same nine-month period last year. As I noted during our call in July, the effective tax
rate for this quarter and for the nine months this year does not yet reflect the benefit of the R&D tax credit, as that
legislation has not yet been passed, although we expect that it will be. The effective tax rate is lower in 2015 as
compared to 2014, primarily as a result of the mix of foreign earnings to lower tax jurisdictions this year as compared
to last year.
Now, I will provide some guidance for you to consider as you refine your models for 2015. Before I discuss sales and
earnings, I will first give some guidance on items we know are difficult for you to forecast, beginning with cash and
interest income and expense.
At the end of the quarter, we had approximately $17 billion of net cash, which consists of approximately $37 billion of
cash and marketable securities and approximately $20 billion of debt. This is a higher level of cash than we typically
hold, and we are actively looking for the right opportunities to use that capital to create greater value for our
shareholders.
As we have discussed before, we have a well-known and disciplined capital allocation strategy that starts with paying
dividends, followed by value-creating M&A, and then we consider other ways to return value to shareholders, such as
through a share repurchase program.
To that end, as you know this morning, we announced a $10 billion share repurchase program, and we believe the
company's shares are an attractive investment opportunity, and repurchasing our shares is an important part of our
capital allocation strategy.
Although we are continuing to evaluate external growth opportunities in line with this strategy, for purposes of your
models, assuming no major acquisitions or other major uses of cash other than the share repurchase program we just
announced, we suggest you consider modeling net interest expense of between $450 million and $500 million, this is a
slight tightening of the range from prior guidance.
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 22
Regarding other income and expense, as a reminder, this is the account where we record royalty income, as well as
gains and losses arising from such items as litigation, investments by our Development Corporation, as well as
divestitures, asset sales, and write-offs. We would be comfortable with your models for 2015 reflecting net other
income and expense, excluding any special items, as a net gain ranging from approximately $2.3 billion to $2.4 billion.
This is slightly higher than our previous guidance.
As a reminder, this now includes the gains from the divestitures of the U.S. rights to the NUCYNTA pain medicine
earlier this year, the Splenda brand this quarter, and the Cordis business, which we closed just after the quarter and will
be recorded in the fourth quarter.
As I mentioned in previous quarters, a portion of other income and expense will flow through to increased operational
earnings, as we expect to use some of these gains and other income to compensate for the decreased income from
OLYSIO in 2015 as compared to 2014, as well as to help us mitigate some of the impact of strong foreign currency
headwinds this year, but we also will continue to invest in our core business and opportunities for future growth.
And now a word on taxes. Our guidance for 2015 anticipates that the R&D tax credit will be renewed by Congress,
although that has not yet occurred. We would therefore be comfortable with your models reflecting an effective tax rate
for 2015, excluding special items, of approximately 21% to 22%, and this is consistent with our previous guidance. If
the R&D tax credit is not approved, it would negatively impact the tax rate by approximately half a percentage point.
Turning to guidance on sales and earnings. As we've done for several years, our guidance will be based first on a
constant currency basis, reflecting our results from operations. This is the way we manage our business, and we believe
this provides a good understanding of the underlying performance of our business. We will also provide an estimate of
our sales and adjusted EPS results for 2015, with the impact that current foreign exchange rates could have on the
translation of those results.
We would be comfortable with your models reflecting an operational sales increase on a constant currency basis of
between 1% and 2% for the year. This would result in sales for 2015 on a constant currency basis of approximately $75
billion to $76 billion. This is consistent with our previous guidance and now reflects the impact of the divestiture of the
Cordis business, offset by stronger performance in other businesses.
Additionally, by way of comparison to how we described our sales results in 2014, our operational sales growth for
2015, excluding the impact of all acquisitions and divestitures, as well as the impact of hepatitis C products, would be
approximately 6%, a higher level of growth than the comparable 5% for 2014.
As of last week, the euro was lower by approximately 16% as compared to 2014 average levels and the dollar
strengthened versus virtually all major currencies. And though we are not predicting the impact of currency
movements, to give you an idea of the potential impact on sales, if currency exchange rates were to remain where they
were as of last week for the balance of this year, our sales growth rate would decrease by nearly 7%, reflecting the
weakening of the euro and other major currencies against the U.S. dollar. Thus, under this scenario, we would expect
reported sales to reflect the change in the range between negative 5% and negative 6%, for a total expected level of
reported sales of between approximately $70 billion and $71 billion.
And now turning to earnings. A significant factor impacting our earnings guidance for 2015 is the impact of currency
movements on transactions, which, although hedged, is still somewhat negative incrementally versus the prior year. We
expect transaction currency impacts to be negative to our gross profit by approximately 50 basis points in 2015 as
compared to 2014.
We would be comfortable with adjusted EPS guidance in the range of $6.75 to $6.80 per share on a constant currency
basis, reflecting an operational or constant currency growth rate of between roughly 5.5% and 6.5%. The midpoint is
higher than our previous guidance as we've increased the lower end of the range, reflecting some operational
improvements in the business and our confidence at this point in the year.
Again, we are not predicting the impact of currency movements, but to give you an idea of the potential impact on
earnings per share, if currency exchange rates for all of 2015 were to remain where they were as of last week. Then our
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 22
reported adjusted EPS would be negatively impacted by approximately $0.60 per share, which is consistent with the
estimate we provided in our previous guidance. Therefore, our reported adjusted EPS would range from $6.15 to $6.20
per share. At this stage in the year, we are comfortable raising the lower end and tightening the range.
So in summary, as you update your models for the guidance that I just provided, I would like to make a few key points.
Although operational sales growth is expected to range between 1% and 2%, we are pleased to note that when
excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and hep C product competition, our operational sales growth at the
midpoint of our guidance is a solid 6% for the full year of 2015 as compared to 5% for 2014. And with regard to
earnings on a constant currency basis, our guidance on operational EPS growth is strong in the range between 5.5% and
6.5%, which is higher than our previous guidance.
As we execute on our growth platforms, we are continuing to make investments in our business and we are prioritizing
our portfolios. We remain focused on building our priority pipelines across the enterprise to position our company for
sustained future growth and expanded leadership in markets around the world.
Also, I'd like to thank the employees of Johnson & Johnson for what they do every day, to make a difference to patients
and consumers and for their continued significant contributions to growing our business.
And now, I would like to turn things back to Louise for the Q&A portion of the meeting. Louise?
Louise Mehrotra
Thank you, Dominic. Manny, could you provide instructions for the Q&A session?
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. [Operator instructions] With that, your first question comes from Larry Biegelsen of Wells Fargo. Please go
ahead.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Good morning, Larry.
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: Hi, Larry.
<Q - Larry Biegelsen>: Good morning, everyone. Thanks for taking the question. So, I guess I'll start with the
buybacks. Maybe, Dominic, you could talk about the timing. In the past, you've done these pretty quickly and it doesn't
sound like based on your comments it's a signal that the M&A targets out there aren't as attractive as you may have
thought. Is that fair? And just from an EPS standpoint, by our math, it's about $0.20, then I have one follow-up.
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: Sure, Larry. Let me try to address each of those questions. So as far as the timeframe, it's an
open-ended share repurchase program, as we said, so there's no real particular timeframe. But just by way of reference,
the most recent share repurchase program that we implemented, which was $5 billion in 2014, took about nine months
to complete.
So we continuously try to buy our stock at the appropriate prices throughout any trading period. And just as a reminder,
we're also simultaneously continuing to buy any stock that's issued in connection with our employee stock programs
and that's about another $3 billion of cash utilized for that purpose.
With respect to any read-through on M&A activity, this in no way has any negative impact on our outlook for M&A
and our pursuit of value-creating acquisitions to drive shareholder value. So we have the financial strength and
flexibility to do both and we're very pleased to be able to continue to do that.
As far as the EPS impact, again, as you know, this is always a tricky calculation because of the weighted average share
calculation. But if it was fully implemented, then a full-year impact of a fully implemented $10 billion share buyback
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 22
would be about 2 percentage points to 3 percentage points of incremental EPS growth.
Now, of course, we won't see very much of that into 2015 because we're just beginning and we'll see some of that show
up in the 2016 earnings. We'll give you a better sense of that in January, but certainly by 2017 when it's fully
implemented, we would see that total percentage positive impact that I just mentioned.
<Q - Larry Biegelsen>: That's very helpful. And then I feel compelled to ask one about the letter coming out of
Washington, Dominic, on some pharmaceutical pricing and price controls, which has gotten a lot of media attention
recently. So where do you see that ultimately going? What's J&J's perspective?
And just lastly, in the early 1990s, I think a lot of pharmaceutical companies, when Hillary Clinton was trying to
reform healthcare, pledged not to raise drug prices by more than inflation. Is that something that J&J would reconsider?
Thanks.
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: Sure, Larry. Let's see. Well, you're right. There's been a lot of rhetoric about
pharmaceutical drug pricing and despite significant media attention on drug pricing, there really isn't a consensus on
policy solutions that would lower prices without negatively impacting innovation. That's the key point.
I think every time we talk about drug pricing, we unfortunately miss the balance of the other side of the coin, which is,
of course, the innovation that comes from the pharmaceutical industry and the improvement in the health and
well-being in the lives of many people around the world. The pharmaceutical industry has and continues to be a
constructive partner in any of these policy debates and we look for solutions to the issue along with policymakers.
Just as a reminder, as part of the Affordable Care Act, the industry agreed to increase rebates in Medicaid and many
other additional fees that I know you're all very familiar with. And as the U.S. healthcare system evolves, I think we'll
have more of a focus on outcomes and value and we're working with both public and private payers to develop
innovative outcome-based contracts. We think the real answer to this dilemma is to monitor and provide
outcome-based metrics and not simply focus only on price.
As far as a pledge...
<Q - Larry Biegelsen>: Thanks for doing – yes.
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: As far as a pledge, Larry, I think we're very responsible in our drug pricing and we tend to
support the price for our drugs with strong economic data. So rather than pledge to a particular number, I think it's
important that we continue to develop robust data that provides a solid foundation for the value that our products
provide to healthcare systems. So we'll continue to do that.
Thanks, Larry.
<Q - Larry Biegelsen>: Thanks for taking the questions.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. The next question is from David Lewis of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Morning, David.
<Q - David Ryan Lewis>: Good morning. Thanks for taking the question. Gary, I thought I would turn the question
back to Devices here for a second, and two areas that I wanted to focus in on. The first is on your innovation sectors,
Gary. You talked that four or five of those areas are within or adjunctive to your dominant franchises in ortho and
surgical, then you have sort of this commentary on select cardio areas.
So, I guess my question is, Gary, first, why even focus on cardio, an area where you have less dominant breadth? Is it
just because there's innovation there and you're going to be selective? And then I have a quick follow-up.
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 22
<A - Gary J. Pruden>: Thank you, David, and good morning. Yeah, it's a great question. I think it's been pretty
consistent and when I've had this conversation before that we see, in cardiovascular, there are interesting areas where
there is a lot of growth opportunities and also unmet needs. I think we've talked about them before and said areas like
CHF, heart failure, [ph] surgical (54:18) heart are fast-growing categories where there is a lot of unmet need and where
we think we can add to our breadth that we have with the EP business currently.
So, as always, we will be opportunistic and looking at opportunities, both internally/externally to add to our portfolio.
We think cardiovascular is a large category. Agree we don't have the same scale as we do in surgery and orthopedics,
but we will look for opportunities to add to that scale with the appropriate types of investments that will create
shareholder value in spaces where we think there's a lot of growth and opportunity.
So, we continue to look at that space. We have highlighted, as we've done today. It remains an area where we've made
some investments, right, because we do investments in small companies and technologies through our Johnson &
Johnson Development Corp., and we'll continue to evaluate the M&A field as well.
<Q - David Ryan Lewis>: Okay. And then, Gary, the other interesting commentary this morning obviously was on
robotics and I know it's very early days here, but I wonder if you could just give us some high level of strategic
thoughts. And I guess two areas of focus. One would be, should we expect very significant capital systems to be sold
from J&J through this partnership or should we see more less expensive capital systems than perhaps are out there
today?
And a related question is, how do you think about cost effectiveness? How do you think about the cost effectiveness of
any disposables that you sell versus robotics relative to existing robotic disposables? Thanks very much.
<A - Gary J. Pruden>: Thank you, David. And listen, really good questions. Let me take the last one first. I mean, I
think you saw in my presentation cost to serve we see as an opportunity, right? If you look at the robotics installed base
as it is today, it's very much focused on the developed markets versus the emerging markets and that's because cost to
serve is disproportionately out of balance. And we think that there are opportunities to have a much smaller footprint in
terms of a technology, a lower cost to serve in terms of disposables as well as capital that we think can play across a
broader range of surgical procedures in a cost-effective way. That improves the capability of the surgeon, provides
real-time data and analytics at their fingertips, greater OR flexibility, and as mentioned, has an overall cost
effectiveness which allows it to penetrate more procedures than what you see today.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Your next question is from Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
<Q - Kristen M. Stewart>: Hi, thanks for taking the call. I was just wondering if, Dominic, you could go into little bit
further detail on some of the businesses that are contributing to basically give you confidence to increase the underlying
guidance for sales.
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: Sure, Kristen. Well, the Pharmaceutical business continues to do very well. The growth, as
you saw in the quarter, we exclude the impacts of OLYSIO, was over 10%, so it's very solid growth. The Consumer
business is launching new products and getting those products back on the shelf and the cadence of new product
introduction as well as the uptake gives us encouragement that we're seeing very, very good results there. And to some
of Gary's businesses, although some are challenged as he pointed out, some continue to do very well: electrophysiology
and others.
So, I think we're confident that despite losing a quarter of the sales from the Cordis business, the rest of the businesses
are performing well enough to pick up that difference and we're comfortable maintaining our sales guidance for the
year.
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 22
<Q - Kristen M. Stewart>: Okay. Then how should we just think about looking ahead in terms of Cordis being out? Is
there enough momentum to offset any dilution there or does the stock repurchase kind of help offset some of that as we
look ahead? They were not giving guidance for 2016, but should we think of the share repurchase similar to what you
did for the Ortho-Clinical Diagnostic?
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: Well, there's two things going on here, I think. One is, of course, the share repurchase will
add incremental EPS growth that helps offset some dilution, but I think the real difference is we're not going to have
the kind of headwind comparison that we had 2015 versus 2014 as we get into 2016 and we feel that the momentum is
strong going into 2016. So I wouldn't characterize the share repurchase as solely related to offset the dilution of Cordis.
I think it'll be incremental to our EPS growth.
<Q - Kristen M. Stewart>: Okay. That's all I have.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question is from Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Morning, Mike.
<Q - Michael J. Weinstein>: Good morning. Thank you, guys. Dominic, with most of the cash – almost all of the cash
outside the U.S. and the incremental $10 million of U.S. debt for the share repurchase, are you assuming that you'll be
able to use at least a portion of that OUS cash for any meaningful M&A in the near term?
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: Mike, thanks for the question. We, as you know, always look for tax-efficient utilization of
the OUS cash. As you know, we did that in the Synthes transaction a couple years ago. So, we'll do our best to structure
any M&A activity in a way that can optimize the effective use of the OUS cash in a tax-efficient manner. So we
continuously work on that and our team is very good at developing strategies to do that and – but more to come on that
at a later time.
<Q - Michael J. Weinstein>: Understood. And is the $10 billion number the right number because it doesn't stress
your ratings with the agencies?
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: Mike, I don't think $10 billion is necessarily related to stressing any credit rating. I think
that, as we've said many, many times, we have a disciplined capital allocation strategy and share repurchases just
happen to be third in line after M&A and dividends being first. So I think we're comfortable that doing $10 billion now
while we're still actively pursuing M&A activities is the right level to do now, then we'll reassess that as that program
begins to wind down. So I wouldn't necessarily think that this is a limit to what we can do at any time.
<Q - Michael J. Weinstein>: Okay. Then just one question for Gary, then I'll drop. So, Gary, one thing that stood out
to me just this quarter, the pluses and the minuses or the minus side, the OUS performance within the Orthopedic
business, the spine business ex-currency was down 12%, trauma was down 6%. Can you shed any light on that?
<A - Gary J. Pruden>: Yeah, Mike. As mentioned, we had some onetime items that were occurring outside the U.S. in
our Orthopedics business. One, as Louise had mentioned in upfront in China where we had a distributor inventory issue
with some slowing of the markets there, we had some – made some corrections to distributor inventories, which
predominantly hit the trauma business, but all of them. And then also in Brazil, we saw some registration issues happen
as part of the integration and that also had an impact in slowing the business as well.
So those two predominant items had a disproportional impact in the quarter. We don't see those as ongoing issues. We
are still excited about the opportunities for the business, specifically trauma in emerging markets we see as an
opportunity and we will continue to focus our efforts there. So, yes, we were disappointed in that. We do see them as
onetime items and we are working through that as we speak, but we still see a lot of opportunity for the business
outside United States.
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 22
<Q - Michael J. Weinstein>: Perfect. Thank you, Gary.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question is from Vamil Divan of Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Good morning, Vamil.
<Q - Vamil K. Divan>: Hi. Good morning, guys. Thanks so much for taking my questions.
Just a couple, if I could, on the Pharma side. So, one, you mentioned on your Diabetes with INVOKANA some of the
market share information. Just curious of obviously the positive data from Lilly on their SGLT2 in terms with their
OUTCOME data, have you seen any initial impact or do you expect to see much of an impact reading through to
INVOKANA given that you guys obviously are the market leader there in that class?
And then just second on the long-acting injectables, again you shared some insights. Just curious if you can share some
thoughts with the new competition, a couple of new players now in that space, how you think that might impact your
growth looking forward. Thanks.
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: Sure. Well, let me take the question on INVOKANA first. We do think that the positive
benefit seen by the Lilly compound is most likely a class effect for SGLT2. It's too early to comment on any effect that
we've seen, and we're also studying our compound regarding cardiovascular impacts, but that data is just a couple of
years away. But we do think there's a positive effect to the overall class as a result of the cardiovascular data that Lilly
shared.
With respect to long-acting injectables, Louise, any comments on market dynamics there? I haven't seen much already.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: We were still seeing strong growth in that market and we've also just introduced TRINZA,
which is the three-month formulation, so we think we're in a very, very good competitive position there.
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: Okay.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question is from Glenn Novarro of RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Good morning, Glenn.
<Q - Glenn J. Novarro>: Hi, good morning, guys. Gary, two questions for you. First, if I look at the Device business
in terms of what you've done over the last few years, you've been divesting assets – cardio assets, the diagnostics
business. As you go forward – as you look forward, are there still businesses within your Device portfolio that you
think need to be divested because they're underperforming? Or do you see yourselves more as a net buyer of assets
going forward? That's question one.
And then question two, Gary, you highlighted you're going to be launching 30 new device products over the next year
or so. When I look at the portfolio of products that you'll be launching, a lot of these I see as kind of singles, maybe
doubles. And so, I was wondering if you can look at that portfolio first today, are there any products that actually could
be bigger? What would be the products that you think actually have the upside to get you back to market growth?
Thanks.
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 16 of 22
<A - Gary J. Pruden>: Thanks, Glenn. Good questions. So, first, in terms of divestitures. As you know, and Alex and
Dominic have talked about it, which is we have a company-wide premise that we should be number one or number two
in the categories where we're committed and have a clear technology path to getting to either a number one or number
two position. And if we don't, we're going to consider our options.
So we have a very formalized process that we go through with the management committee in looking at our
opportunities and we take on divestitures, opportunities carefully, as we've done in both the OCD and the Cordis
situation. We will continue to do that portfolio analysis on an ongoing basis, so I can't really say what's going to
happen. But certainly, we will continue to look at our portfolio in terms of opportunities.
We will also, though, continue to look at, Glenn, opportunities to acquire new businesses that we think are accretive,
that will add to our business growth, and create shareholder value. So, I think in a disciplined focus approach where we
divest, we will also look at opportunities to acquire. I think certainly accelerating our pace of tuck-in deals would be a
good opportunity for Medical Device we see, considering our scale in the market, especially in Surgery and
Orthopedics, is large, and we anticipate accelerating that pace over the next 12 to 18 months.
In terms of the second question, which was around opportunities, as you look at our portfolio, you're right. We have a
lot of, I'll call it – you call it singles and doubles. I would say we have a couple triples in there, especially in the EP
space, that we think that will be some really game changers.
The big one that I would highlight for you, which would be very different than anything else, will be robotics. The
category, as mentioned in my talk, is $2 billion growing at double-digit. We see a disruptive opportunity happening in
the next couple of years here for us to take a substantial share of the market going forward, with a very different
technology that's integrated and delivers value for our customers. So, putting a lot of focus and efforts there which we
think will be important, and we're also looking at, are there opportunities for us, from a L&A and M&A perspective, to
bring in exciting technology into our platform to accelerate growth as well.
So, Glenn, a couple of areas that I would say where I think we've got some really interesting things. Also, I would say
in the next MD&D day coming up in May, you'll see a little bit more of the pipeline, where – in some of the areas that I
am very excited about, but probably too early to disclose right now, and we'll give you a little bit more detail at that
point in time.
<Q - Glenn J. Novarro>: Okay. Thank you.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question is from Danielle Antalffy of Leerink Partners. Please go ahead.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Good morning, Danielle.
<Q - Danielle J. Antalffy>: Hey. Good morning, guys. Thanks so much for taking the question. Just to touch on the
M&A topic for a second, Gary, you did touch on it a little bit, mentioned tuck-in acquisitions. But if we take a step
back, two questions for you guys here. Number one, given the $10 billion share buyback announced today, and the fact
that that's sort of priority number three, at least how you lay it out, does that signal that your appetite for a large
acquisition is maybe off the table and you will be focused more on the smaller tuck-in type deals that are within pharma
partnerships or in-licensing deals?
And then number two, if you look across your businesses, where are the holes that you'd like to fill as you look at the
markets that are higher growth that you don't currently play in?
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: Yes, Danielle, it's Dominic here. Thanks for the question. I wouldn't interpret the $10
billion share buyback as impacting our appetite for scale of any size in M&A at all. Our appetite for M&A of any scale
has entirely to do with whether or not the acquisition is going to create value for shareholders and, as you know, we're
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 17 of 22
very disciplined about that.
It is true that over our history, we have done many, many acquisitions, and the largest ones are few and far between, but
that has to do with what Gary mentioned. In a business of our scale, we can bring in lots of tuck-ins or licenses, for
example, in the Pharma business, where we can get the most value for our shareholders in the most capital-efficient
manner, but it doesn't preclude us from then also looking for large-scale acquisitions.
As far as where we would look, as you know, in Pharma, we're focused on five therapeutic areas. I think we'll remain
focused there. In Consumer, as you know, we have our core platforms of skin care, oral care, OTC in particular, as well
as emerging market. And for Medical Devices, Gary, why don't I ask you to just comment on areas of focus out there?
<A - Gary J. Pruden>: Absolutely. I think, if you look at one of the slides in our strategy to win, our innovation focus
there is, we're really focused on five key unmet needs. So one is in – we see in surgical oncology, which the space is
really evolving as we speak, where we see more targeted interventions that, using a combination of approaches in terms
of technologies, may provide more minimally-invasive outcomes for patients in the long-term. Second is really in the
area of obesity, and that is still a fast-growing segment where we see a lot of opportunity. Especially as you start to
think about more minimally-invasive surgical procedures that produce outcomes similar or close to the surgical
interventions today. I mentioned the select cardiovascular disease areas that we highlighted previously, and then
obviously osteoarthritis and osteoporosis, which offer many opportunities, if you think about it, in terms of joints,
trauma, and spine, where we see interesting opportunities to get tuck-in deals that would help accelerate our growth. So
those are some areas that we're very focused in on right now. When you say, spaces that we're not in today, if you look
at it, we are the largest, most comprehensive Medical Device business, with a footprint in surgery, orthopedics, and
cardiovascular. We'd obviously like to expand our cardiovascular footprint, but we'll do that in a strategic way, where
we can create some value. So there are very – a lot of spaces that are nice adjacencies, as I've outlined, that we think we
can create some value through tuck-in deals or larger acquisition as well.
<Q - Danielle J. Antalffy>: Okay, thanks so much.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question is from Jami Rubin of Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Good morning, Jami.
<Q - Jami Rubin>: Thank you. Good morning. Dominic, I'm kind of surprised that you're putting a buyback as a third
priority ahead of M&A. If you look at your PE multiple today, it's about 14, 15 times, well below your pharma peers as
well as your med tech peers. You have a massively underleveraged balance sheet, one of the few AAA-rated balance
sheets out there, investors clearly have been frustrated by the operating performance and the stock performance. And
I'm just curious to know, if you're so excited about the growth outlook of the business, what could be a better
investment than you buying back your stock, but not $10 billion – but I guess what I'm talking about is something
much more substantial that would really make an impact on your growth rate, like a leveraged buy back up to $50
billion or even higher, so if you could talk about that a bit.
And also, just back to sort of the M&A discussion, I think there's a lot of focus on getting your MD&D business back
to growth. Can you kind of talk about your thoughts on most of the med device growth assets out there are trading at
multiples well ahead of yours, and how you think about generating value by potentially acquiring some of those?
Thanks very much.
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: Sure. Well, Jami, as you know, we've been very consistent with our capital allocation
strategy, and that's based on extensive research over many years. As you know, share buybacks have some incremental
benefit but the data, as you know, is mixed on the overall outcome. And just because we did a $10 billion share
buyback doesn't mean that we won't do another one and another one and another one, so I wouldn't necessarily limit it
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 18 of 22
to just one that was announced today. Of course, the big difference between M&A and share buybacks is the one thing
that share buybacks don't do, of course, is they don't provide any incremental capability to the company, any
incremental ability to innovate and be competitive in healthcare, and that we place as a priority over reducing the share
count. It doesn't mean that we can't do both. I think we have the financial flexibility to do both, and I think you'll see us
do both.
As far as being under levered, I think these go hand in hand. We want to maintain financial flexibility to do the kinds of
transactions that we think are going to be value creating to shareholders when those opportunities arise, so we always
maintain financial flexibility just as a simple way of the way we conduct our business.
As far as getting back to growth in MD&D through M&A, and I'll obviously have Gary comment as well; when you
talk about assets that seem to be highly valued, I think what's very important to realize is that none of the assets that
you may be referring to as highly valued have the scale and breadth of the kind of MD&D business that we have here at
Johnson & Johnson. So our ability to leverage our scale and breadth, our scientific know-how, our engineering
know-how, the overall presence in the hospital setting, with contracting and the like, is probably unparalleled and in
very few companies, despite their current valuations, have that built into their valuations. So we think in our hands, we
can possibly create more value than the business on a standalone basis. Gary, anything else you want to add to that?
<A - Gary J. Pruden>: No. Listen, I think, Jami, that's the challenge we're taking on in medical device, right, which is
if you – as many companies with really a large portfolio, we have a mix of platform performance versus the market,
right? We've got strong performance leaders in segments in surgery, cardio and ortho, but we also have some
opportunities where we would need to accelerate our growth, right, in platforms like spine, trauma, energy and
infection prevention. I think we understand how to drive that growth in those areas in energy and infection prevention.
We have a pipeline of new innovations, which we think will accelerate our growth. In spine and trauma we need to
accelerate that pace of innovation through internal innovation and externally sourced innovation as well. So I think we
will look at opportunities, both organic and inorganic, to accelerate our growth rate, to drive that performance because I
think that will be critical and important to the long-term growth of the business. As Dominic mentioned, with the scale
of the business at $22 billion, right, to accelerate our growth rate by one or two points is a very large acquisition, which
any of those acquisitions of that nature, we'd want to do that very carefully and ensure that we're creating shareholder
value.
<Q - Jami Rubin>: Dominic, just if I can prospect for a second. Clearly, the track record in buybacks, just given where
stock prices have been over the last ten years [ph] have been, the expected (1:17:50) track record with M&A has also
been mixed, such as the Synthes deal, which you – which Gary talked about during his remarks. So I'm just curious to
know how you think about that, but thanks very much.
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: Okay. Well, you're right. Not every M&A deal works out exactly the way you had
predicted it would. I think we were very clear that we thought enhancing scale in orthopedics was important and we did
sell at a time that, quite frankly, was ahead of what you now see as competitive set doing. So I think we're very pleased
having done that acquisition. We think of acquisitions as creating value over the long-term. And despite some market
slowdown, we're still very confident in the growth of our overall orthopedics business along with the trauma business
that we acquired from Synthes, just having a broader scale to create value. M&A can be tricky. We work very hard to
do so and to do the deals in a disciplined way and to gain value from these transactions over the long-term.
<Q - Jami Rubin>: Thanks very much.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: You're welcome. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you, your next question is from Damien Conover of Morningstar. Please go ahead.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Good morning, Damien.
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 19 of 22
<Q - Damien Conover>: Good morning, thanks for taking the question. Just two drug-related questions. Just one
question on Xarelto. You still have some pretty strong growth there, but it seems like a little bit of a deceleration,
wasn't sure if some new indications are really needed to re-accelerate that growth. I know there's a couple coming up in
heart failure and stroke over the next couple years. And then the second question was just on Remicade. Looked like
some declines there internationally, partly due to Japan, but also I was wondering if you could give any insights in what
you're seeing in the European area with biosimilars? Thank you.
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: Sure. Let me just say a few words on Xarelto. You may be referring to a little bit of a
slowdown sequentially with Xarelto. I think that dynamic has to do with the doughnut hole that's part of the Affordable
Care Act in terms of Part D reimbursement. So as it turns out, when people with Part D coverage reach the doughnut
hole amount, they have more out-of-pocket costs to incur, we believe that's had a bit of an impact in the third quarter
compared to the second quarter, and that wouldn't be necessarily just for our product, it would be seen across other
products as well. Louise, anything else you'd add to that?.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Yeah. And in addition, over half of our sales are in Medicare Part D. And as you enter the
donut hole, the manufacturers have to actually pick up a portion of the pricing, it's about 50% of it. So you're seeing
that impact. Regarding Remicade in Europe, we're going to leave that for Merck to cover.
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: I do think that although we won't comment on Merck's territory, we do have Remicade in
Canada and we've seen very little biosimilar impact there. I mean we still are retaining about 90% of the business and,
again, as we've said before, these are biosimilars, they're not generics, and there's a lot that goes into a physician's
decision to switch a patient. And, as we've said many times before also, about 70% of the patients on Remicade seem to
be well controlled with their disease.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Thank you, next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question is from Jayson Bedford of Raymond James. Please go ahead.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Morning, Jayson.
<Q - Jayson T. Bedford>: Good morning. Thanks for squeezing me in. Just wanted to ask you about emerging
markets. I thought your comments were a little bit more tempered than your prior comments. So I'm wondering, first, if
you could give us growth in emerging markets in the quarter.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: The emerging markets grew about 4% in the third quarter and on a year-to-date basis, they
grew about 5%. I think because there's of some fluctuations between some of the tender business, et cetera, in the
emerging markets, particularly, Brazil and Russia, you're probably better to use the year-to-date numbers, it's about 5%
year-to-date, operationally.
<Q - Jayson T. Bedford>: Okay. I realized you mentioned the lower inventory in China on the ortho side, but are you
seeing the softness in emerging markets more in devices or consumer?
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: Well, I think there's very different dynamics in the emerging markets for consumer. So, for
example, the OTC businesses – just as an example, in Russia, we're doing extremely well in that emerging market with
our Consumer business; whereas In China, as you know, we've had some issues there, so we've seen some slower
growth in the China emerging markets. In Medical Devices, as Gary pointed out, that's typically a robust market for us
in Medical Devices. It's our largest of the three businesses in emerging markets and in China, in particular, is Medical
Devices. And just particularly this quarter we had the inventory contraction that we saw from our distributors as the
market has slowed down in China, so we think that's sort of a one-time adjustment that we've just experienced this
quarter.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Thank you. Gary, would you like to add something?
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 20 of 22
<A - Gary J. Pruden>: Yes, thanks. [indiscernible] (1:23:06) I split the business from our Surgical business to
Orthopedics business. I look at China as a surrogate marker. Surgical business, you still see good double-digit growth
rates coming out of the business. The realignment of the issues in orthopedic certainly offset that. Same in Brazil. We
still see strong high single-digit, double-digit growth coming out of the Surgery business but not so much in the Ortho
business due to the registration issues. So, as in my comments in Medical Device, it has slowed, without question,
we've seen that. But again, access to care growth is still growing. Raising the standard in the market in terms of the
medical unmet needs is still an important opportunity and we still see good growth coming there, albeit it tempered
from what it was maybe over the last 18 months.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question is from Jeff Holford of Jefferies. Please go ahead.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Morning, Jeff.
<Q - Jeffrey Holford>: Good morning. Thanks very much. I've got two questions. The first one is around Invokana
where IMS volumes seemed to have really flattened off since the FDA notice on ketoacidosis in May. Can you just talk
about the product's recent performance in the U.S. and what is driving this and when you'd hope to see an improvement
or address any of those concerns that might be out there? And then the second question's really just going back to some
of the M&A discussion that's been on the call. I think in the past, Dominic, you said a few times that large scale M&A
in pharma or biopharma is in the opposite direction from what you've always thought about. Is that still the case going
forward so we can probably take from that the way you talk about the ability to still do larger deals that's most likely to
be in the MD&D [inaudible] (1:24:54)
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: Yeah, Jayson, you broke up – Jeff, you broke up, but I think I understand where you were
going. Let me just take the M&A question first and then Louise you can actually provide some color on Invokana. So,
Jeff, I don't think you should read into the fact that we're adverse to doing large M&A in any of the businesses, it just
has to be value-creating as I've said many, many times. When I say it's in the opposite direction of our pharma strategy,
as you know, our pharma strategy, which has been very successful, has not been driven by large M&A in comparison
to what you've seen in the industry, and so we're very clear that growing the business through searching for the best
compound, the best innovation, regardless where it comes from and then incorporating that into our development
engine and using the scientific expertise that we have in-house is what's been the success story of pharma, that doesn't
mean it can't also happen with a large M&A deal, but it's been consistently very, very capital-efficient and very
successful in the way we've been doing it for the last couple years.
In terms of Invokana for ketoacidosis, you're right, there was an FDA notice, and it wasn't solely related to Invokana. In
our clinical trials for Invokana, ketoacidosis rate was very, very low. But, Louise, any other comments on that?
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: So, Jeff, I'd like to point out that Invokana did grow 91% in the quarter in the U.S. So I think
that's pretty good. The markets consistently are growing 7%, I just looked at the trends and it's very consistent for
second and third quarter. As far as, TRx's we're at 6.3%, up from 6% in the second quarter; primary care is at 5.6%, up
from 5.3%; and the endo at 13.1% is about the same as it was in the second quarter, so I think it's doing very well.
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: Thanks.
<Q - Jeffrey Holford>: So, just as a follow-up, what I'm really referring to – if you look at the IMS data over the last
quarter or six months, there is a clear sort of flattening off, are you getting any feedback as to why that may be? I'm not
talking about the year-on-year growth, which is obviously very, very strong, because the products have a very strong
ramp, [ph] very much (1:27:14) just the recent performance and what you're seeing there.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Well, I just gave you sequential TRx's, so I think that's the most recent that we would have,
and I'm also – I'm looking at the market growth for that – it's at 7%. So I think we're doing fine. And as Dominic said,
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 21 of 22
it's a very low incident. It's 0.01 – or 0.1 in our Phase III trial. So it's very low.
<Q - Jeffrey Holford>: Okay, great, thank you.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Next question.
Operator
Thank you, your next question is from [ph] Bob Hopkins (1:27:43) of Bank of America. Please go ahead.
<Q>: Thanks and good morning. Can you hear me OK?
<A>: Yeah. Hi, [ph] Bob. (1:27:49) Good morning.
<Q>: Good morning. So, Gary, since we have you on the call, I just have two quick questions for you. The first is a
follow-up on the robotics side. I was just wondering if you can give us an indication of what announcement we're going
to hear over the next couple weeks, and then if you could also just give us a sense as to kind of where you are with this
collaboration with Google. You said it's in the development stage. Could you just give us some rough parameters of
how you're thinking about commercialization. I mean, is this one to two years, two to three, three to five? Just some
rough sense there would be helpful, thanks.
<A - Gary J. Pruden>: Thanks, [ph] Bob. (1:28:24) So, in terms of robotics, listen, I will leave the announcement to
the new co, the company, they have some announcements that will be coming out in the next few weeks so I'd like the
leader there to do it. As mentioned, this is a partnership between ourselves and my partner Andy Conrad at Google Life
Sciences, so the new company will make that announcement. In terms of the development stage, yes, we're in the phase
where we are integrating, right, our technology with the Google technology, right, in terms of, from a systems
engineering perspective, and integrating informatics into the design of our robot. So we're looking, I would say, you're
on the earlier side of your range, right, I would say it's the next couple years. We'd obviously like to accelerate that, but
we want to make sure that we stay true to our value proposition, which is, we think what's available today is really the
model that's more like the main frame computer 50 years ago. We intend to go to the iPad version, and that's what we
want to launch. With a more integrated informatics, diagnostics, right, that are available for the surgeon around the
world at a lower cost to serve. So we think it's better to do it right. There will be a lot of follow-on competitors that
come in the next couple years that I think will be more big box players. That is clearly not our strategy. And we think
this is an opportunity to be disruptive in a very unique partnership to create value for our customers, patients and also
for the Johnson & Johnson shareholders.
<A - Louise Mehrotra>: Last and final question and then we'll have some final remarks by Dominic.
Operator
Thank you. Your final question is from [ph] Tony Butler (1:30:17) of Guggenheim Partners. Please go ahead.
<Q>: Yes, thanks very much. I just wanted to, Gary, echo one of Bob's questions and that is simply around robotics.
I'm very respectful of the reduced cost to serve, but the real question becomes, in the end game, outside of the
intellectual capital the two companies put together and come up with a fix, the question really becomes, is there enough
capacity for capital expense from the customers in the future? As you alluded to earlier, most of the big boxes are really
in developed markets, but if you think about this globally, which I'm sure you are, then the question becomes, is there
sufficient capital at institutions today, especially in China, et cetera, that can actually deploy a robotics technology in
the future? And my last question, really, Dominic, is back to M&A again, sorry. But I actually – you alluded to pharma
and the partnerships you've created have been great. I think I would actually have assumed that the speed at which
those partnerships would occur would actually escalate in part because of your capital that you currently have and
because the landscape is changing, certainly especially true in oncology. Any commentary would be great. Thanks very
much.
Company Name: Johnson & Johnson
Company Ticker: JNJ US
Date: 2015-10-13
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 22 of 22
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: Robotics, Gary?
<A - Gary J. Pruden>: Yeah, so thank you for the question. And listen, I think that question is an age-old question
that goes on which is, will there be enough capital to support innovation? And I think at the end of the day the answer
is always yes. The other thing that I'll point out is we don't believe the capital play here for our innovation is going to
be $2 million per hospital. So we're going to provide a lot more flexibility in terms of that and also, quite frankly, it
depends on our go-to-market model, right, in terms of how we bring that to market. So, I think you might find some
unique ways in order to do that, we haven't quite decided on that at this point. But, as mentioned, we have decided that
the terms of our value proposition, which will be a lower cost to serve, a smaller footprint and we do believe that if you
produce innovation, right, that delivers meaningful outcomes and improvement for patients, that there will be enough
capital out there, globally, to support that.
<A - Dominic J. Caruso>: [ph] Tony, (1:32:44) with respect to M&A and pharma and your comment about the speed
at which we can do partnerships and maybe you thought we'd accelerate them. We're always actively involved in this
space, not only in oncology but in all the therapeutic areas that we operate in. And, as you know, we already have a
pretty robust pipeline where we're going to be filing 10 new NMEs between now and 2015, some of those, of course,
come from the various partnerships and licenses that we've done. So, you'll continue to see us do that. I think
accelerating those is something we always love to do, but we want to do the right deal with the right partner at the right
value and getting the deal done right is probably more important.
<Q>: Thanks, Dominic. thanks Gary.
Dominic J. Caruso
Sure you're welcome, [ph] Tony. (1:33:33) Well, thanks, everyone, for tuning in today. Thanks Louise and thanks Gary
for giving us an update on our Medical Device business and the strategies to accelerate growth. I'd just like to reiterate,
we're very pleased that we're able to announce a $10 billion share buyback program while we continue to actively look
to put our financial strength to use to further accelerate our growth. So thanks again for tuning in today and have a very
nice day. Bye-bye.
Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's Johnson & Johnson's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings
Conference Call. You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.