Company Name: Entergy
Company Ticker: ETR US
Date: 2015-11-02
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 16
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Paula Waters
• Leo P. Denault
• Andrew S. Marsh
• William M. Mohl
• Theodore H. Bunting
Other Participants
• Praful Mehta
• Paul Patterson
• Jonathan P. Arnold
• Julien Dumoulin-Smith
• Paul T. Ridzon
• Stephen Calder Byrd
• Steven Isaac Fleishman
• Michael J. Lapides
• Neel Mitra
• Charles J. Fishman
• Shahriar Pourreza
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Entergy Corporation's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Release and
Teleconference. At this time, all participants on the phone lines have been placed on mute. Later, we will conduct a
question-and-answer session and the instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] Do note, today's
program is being recorded.
I'd like to now introduce our host for today's program, Ms. Paula Waters, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please
begin.
Paula Waters
Good morning, and thank you for joining us. We will begin today with comments from Entergy's Chairman and CEO,
Leo Denault. And then Drew Marsh, our CFO, will review results. In an effort to accommodate everyone who has
questions, we request that each person ask no more than two questions.
In today's call, management will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning these risks and uncertainties is included in the company's SEC filings.
Now, I will turn the call over to Leo.
Company Name: Entergy
Company Ticker: ETR US
Date: 2015-11-02
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 16
Leo P. Denault
Thanks, Paula, and good morning, everyone. Before we get started, there have been some questions about the
forward-looking numbers we plan to disclose for Utility, Parent and Other earnings at the upcoming Edison Electric
Institute Financial Conference. Just to give you a quick preview, they will be in line with our previous disclosures.
Regarding third quarter results, with the exception of impairments at EWC, results were largely in line with our
expectations. However, some of the drivers turned out differently than we originally anticipated, including
stronger-than-normal weather that boosted earnings by $0.16 per share which was offset by lower weather adjusted
residential sales and regulatory compliance costs at the Arkansas Nuclear One plant.
As we have noted previously, we currently anticipate approximately $85 million of costs at ANO, for additional
nuclear regulatory commission inspection activities rising out its placement in Column 4 of the reactor oversight
process action matrix. These costs will impact operational results in both 2015 and 2016. The Pilgrim Nuclear Power
Station will also undergo additional inspection activities related to its placement in Column 4 by the NRC, which will
increase its cost in the coming years.
We realize these items, while temporary, are disappointing. We will do our best to mitigate their impact. However, our
longer term objectives remain intact. Therefore, as we work our way through the near-term operational issues at ANO
and Pilgrim, we maintain our focus on our long-term opportunities. To that end, by most any measure, the last few
months and October in particular have been very productive. The actions we've taken demonstrate execution on the
strategy we've outlined to you for some time.
For the Utility, the strategy is to grow the business by investing capital in ways that benefit our customers. This strategy
is centered on our obligation as well as our opportunity to invest capital to replace aging infrastructure, strengthen
reliability, meet economic development and other growth needs, and ensure that the environmental profile of our
generation fleet is in line with the evolving regulatory framework.
To facilitate execution of this investment opportunity, to enhance service to existing customers, as well as adding new
customers, we seek to align our objectives with our regulators' expectations so that we have the regulatory support and
financial flexibility to make those investments.
During the last quarter, at the Utility, we have received approval for the business combination of Entergy Louisiana and
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, which was completed on October 1; closed on the transfer of the Algiers portion of
Entergy Louisiana to Entergy New Orleans; received approval of a renewable purchase power agreement in Arkansas,
which applied provisions from legislation passed earlier this year; advanced our generation plan to filing an application
for approval to build another new combined cycle gas turbine plant in Louisiana and administering a competitive
request for proposal processes for long-term capacity in Louisiana and Texas, which include market testing two
self-build CCGTs.
We completed nine transmission projects, totaling $92 million in investment while being on track to complete the
transmission work required to support a major customer in December, ahead of that customer's planned date to begin
taking transmission service and receive regulatory approvals in Texas, Louisiana and from the Utility Committee of the
City Council of New Orleans for a settlement to end the System Agreement next year.
For EWC, the strategy rests on safe operations of our nuclear plants in managing risk, so we can get the most out of
that business. Execution on this strategy requires discipline and responsible decision-making in a volatile environment.
We have also taken action consistent with our strategy. We announced the sale of the Rhode Island State Energy
Center, CCGT for $490 million. We announced the decision to close Pilgrim by June 1, 2019. And today, we are
announcing plans to shut down the FitzPatrick Nuclear Power Plant at the end of the current operating cycle in late
2016 or early 2017.
Company Name: Entergy
Company Ticker: ETR US
Date: 2015-11-02
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 16
New York State officials worked as hard as we did over the past two months to reach a constructive and mutually
beneficial agreement to avoid a shutdown of FitzPatrick, but our efforts were ultimately unsuccessful.
From a corporate level, we've added another new board member, one of three this year, with expertise that helps
position us for the future, and importantly, raise the dividend for the first time since 2010. While dividend decisions
will be made annually, it is our intention to provide steady and consistent growth in our dividends in the coming years.
Continuing to deliver on our strategy will be the key to meeting this objective. Earlier this year, we outlined what we
needed to do to execute on our strategy. Our achievements to-date are listed on slide three. These significant
accomplishments could not have been possible without the dedication and commitment of the entire 13,000-member
Entergy team as well as the dedication and commitment of those we partner with to grow the communities we serve.
However, our focus is squarely on what's next to continue the momentum we've worked so hard to gain.
One such item we're working on at the Utility is completing the planned acquisition of the nearly 2,000-megawatt
Union Power Station. Entergy Louisiana, the successor in interest to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Arkansas
and Entergy New Orleans have agreed to purchase this modern, efficient CCGT at approximately half the cost of
building a comparable new plant.
Just last week, the Louisiana Public Service Commission approved a settlement in support of the transaction. No parties
were opposed. We also continue to explore settlement options with the advisors in New Orleans. And in Arkansas, a
decision by the Arkansas Public Service Commission is pending, which we asked for by December 1. An industrial
group is the only opposing party. We remain on track to close the transaction by yearend, subject to pending regulatory
approvals and other customary closing conditions.
We have also been working with the APSC and other public officials to give Entergy Arkansas the financial flexibility
it needs to make investments and help attract new business to the state. After passage of legislation, providing for a
platform for progressive rate regulation, we are now focused on the pending rate case. In addition to the Union
acquisition, a significant component of the rate case is the approximately $800 million of added investments since the
last case.
In late September, staff filed testimony recommending a $217.9 million rate increase and 9.65% return on equity, an
increase over the current 9.5% authorized ROE. As a reminder, Entergy Arkansas is seeking a $268 million base rate
increase and a 10.2% ROE. Factoring in rider offsets, the net increase requested is $167 million.
While we continue to work through the process, we view the staff's testimony as constructive and look forward to
working with all of our stakeholders toward a result that aligns us all toward growing the economy in the state. The
settlement deadline is December 31 of this year.
In September, Entergy Texas filed with the Public Utility Commission of Texas for rider recovery of nearly $140
million of incremental transmission and distribution rate base since the 2014 rate case. These rider filings seek nearly
$20 million in new revenue requirements. Decisions are expected by early next year.
Another area where we have worked diligently to align with our regulators is on the subject of the Entergy System
Agreement. The System Agreement has been a longstanding source of frustration and disagreements among our
regulators. Entergy Arkansas exited in late 2013 and Entergy Mississippi is preparing to exit within a week's time. We
are now well on our way to ending this arrangement altogether by September 1 of next year.
After gaining approval by the LPSC, the PUCT and the Utility Committee of the City Council of New Orleans, the
settlement is expected to be taken up by the City Council this week, leaving the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission as the final outstanding approval.
Ending the System Agreement next year is not expected to have a significant financial impact to ongoing consolidated
earnings. The benefits are twofold. It simplifies our business and allows us to focus on jurisdictional-specific matters,
especially the Utility's role in economic growth in our regions, and it allows interactions with our regulators in all
jurisdictions to be squarely focused on investing to improve operations and grow our business to benefit customers.
Company Name: Entergy
Company Ticker: ETR US
Date: 2015-11-02
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 16
At EWC, our top priority remains the continued safe operations of the fleet. Executing on recent strategic decisions
while considering the needs of our stakeholders is also an important objective for the future. In October, we began the
process to obtain the necessary approvals to support a close of the RISEC CCGT sale by year-end. We've also begun
the process toward an orderly shutdown of Pilgrim, and we'll soon begin the process for FitzPatrick. These decisions
are difficult, knowing the effect a plant's closure will have on our employees and the surrounding communities. We're
committed to ensuring we're fair to all of our employees as they go through this difficult time.
The sale of the RISEC power plant and the closing of Pilgrim and FitzPatrick are the right business decisions. Each
meet our criteria for assessing strategic options around the EWC fleet. They are positive NPV decisions over the long
term, they improve cash flow in the near term, and help to de-risk the company. That said, I can tell you they are some
of the most difficult decisions we as a management team, as well as our board of directors, have ever made. So, while
the decisions themselves are clearly appropriate, we all had hoped there could have been a different outcome.
With the closure of FitzPatrick and Pilgrim, we'll have two remaining nuclear-generating facilities and operation within
EWC, Palisades and Indian Point. Palisades has a power purchase agreement for virtually all of its output until April
2022. For Indian Point, we will continue to work through the license renewal process.
We will also continue to advocate for reforms to wholesale market designs. Wholesale electricity markets are failing to
produce accurate price signals that reflect true marginal costs of providing energy and capacity, challenging the
long-term sustainability of these markets.
The FERC issued an order on the energy market price formation in September, following a series of technical
workshops to discuss issues regarding price formation in energy and ancillary service markets. FERC indicated this is a
first step in the energy price formation initiative. We will continue to participate actively for fair market designs that
compensate all generators for the attributes they provide to the market.
Through this time of opportunity and change, we need strong governance, advice and leadership at the highest levels of
the company. This year we welcomed three new board members: Patrick Condon, Karen Puckett, and most recently,
Philip Frederickson. Pat, Karen, and Phil bring valuable experience to our board with expertise in utility regulatory and
financial matters, commodity markets, business strategy and leading businesses undergoing transformational change.
And last week, we promoted two new members of the executive leadership team: Paul Hinnenkamp, Senior Vice
President and Chief Operating Officer; and Tim Mitchell, acting Chief Nuclear Officer. Paul's experience in nuclear
and fossil generation and most recently leading our capital projects management organization will be instrumental in
supporting the Utility's growth strategy with safe and reliable operations and disciplined fiscal and project planning for
our capital spending plans.
Tim has the deep technical knowledge and strong leadership capabilities to lead the nuclear organization through the
challenges in our nuclear fleet and drive towards excellence in operating all of our facilities safely, securely and
reliably. At the same time, we thank Mark Savoff, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Jeff
Forbes, Chief Nuclear Officer, for their leadership and accomplishments. They both recently announced their upcoming
retirements. We are grateful for their contributions and continued consultation and advice through this transition period.
We are looking forward to see you next week at the Annual EEI Financial Conference. Our accomplishments and the
plans for the future are foundational to consistent Utility, Parent & Other earnings growth and steady dividend growth.
And we've started down the path of providing clarity around the future of EWC. Whether it's day-to-day operations of
the business or making strategic decisions, our sense of purpose and resolve remains on finding solutions that provide
long-term benefits for our owners, customers, employees and communities we serve.
Now I'll turn the call over to Drew.
Andrew S. Marsh
Company Name: Entergy
Company Ticker: ETR US
Date: 2015-11-02
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 16
Thank you, Leo, and good morning, everyone. I'll begin my remarks today with a review of our third quarter results,
which are summarized on slide four of the presentation. Our operational results of a $1.90 per share, excluding special
items related to the impairment of EWC's Pilgrim and FitzPatrick nuclear plant and the decision to close Vermont
Yankee, were up from third quarter of 2014.
As Leo noted, this was in line with our original expectations overall but not in line with the expected drivers, as strong
weather made up for ongoing ANO Column 4 expenses and lower-than-expected residential sales growth. As reported,
earnings were a negative $4.04 for the quarter, driven by the impairments at Pilgrim and FitzPatrick. Details of the
impairments and the related accounting were provided in a Form 8-K filed on October 16.
Moving to slide five, Utility, Parent & Other results were up quarter-over-quarter. Contributing to the increase was net
revenue which added $0.36 per share. A large portion of this was from weather, with the remainder from higher
industrial usage, recovery of productive investments such as Ninemile 6 and items offset in operations and maintenance
categories. Though net revenue was higher, we originally expected an additional $0.05 per share in net revenue from
sales growth, but missed this target with lower weather-adjusted residential sales volume down 0.10%
quarter-over-quarter.
Also contributing to the favorable variance is an asset write-off of $0.23 per share related to the settlement to the
Mississippi rate case that was included in 2014's third quarter results. The impact of these favorable variances was
partly reduced by higher Utility non-fuel O&M expenses of $0.16 per share. Roughly $0.04 of this variance is offset in
net revenue. Of the remaining variance, $0.07 was due to NRC inspection costs for ANO and the balance primarily due
to higher distribution reliability expenses.
Sales volume from industrial customers increased quarter over quarter by 4% as shown on slide six, adding nearly 300
gigawatt hours to our sales this quarter for new and expansion industrial projects, mostly from ramp-ups in the
chlor-alkali and petrochemical sectors. Volume from our existing customers recovered from the second quarter decline
and came in above third quarter 2014 levels as petroleum refineries ran at high utilization levels. And for next quarter
one of our largest customers is already in an extended outage. So we currently expect industrial sales to be less robust
in the fourth quarter. Recall, that lower sales due to short-term outages of existing customers can be less impactful due
to demand charges.
EWC third quarter operational results on slide seven were $0.18 in 2015, $0.05 lower than in the third quarter of 2014.
Though the closure of Vermont Yankee added $0.09 to operational results this quarter, this was more than offset by a
decrease of about $5.80 per megawatt hour, the average price earned by the nuclear plants still in operation.
Operating cash flow on slide eight shows overall lower cash flow this quarter as compared to the third quarter of 2014.
Cash flow at Utility was lower primarily due to $300 million of Hurricane Isaac securitization proceeds received last
year. Declines in EWC net revenue also contributed to lower cash flow.
As we move past our third quarter results, we'll take one more look at our overall 2015 expectations relative to
guidance. Beginning on the right side of slide nine, Utility, Parent & Other adjusted EPS, is expected to be lower than
anticipated, driven primarily by $0.17 of O&M expenses from ANO Column 4 management, $0.06 of incremental
reliability spending, and $0.07 of lower than expected total weather-adjusted sales, primarily residential. This brought
us below our adjusted EPS expectations which is disappointing
As on slide five, adjusted Utility, Parent & Other EPS removes the effects of special items, weather and tax items.
However, with both favorable weather and income tax variances as well as the operational income effect of
impairments for Pilgrim and Fitzpatrick, on the left side of the slide we expect to exceed the original 2015 guidance
range and are adjusting the range to $5.50 to $6.10. Currently, we are tracking to around $6.00.
We've mentioned before that we have been working on tax items which could be recognized towards the end of this
year. One of those is connected with the recently completed business combination of ELL and EGSL. After guaranteed
sharing of $107 million with our customers, we'll recognize roughly $1.50 per share in the fourth quarter. Although
there could still be other tax items resolved and recognized in the fourth quarter, we expect our 2015 tax position to
exceed our original guidance expectations.
Company Name: Entergy
Company Ticker: ETR US
Date: 2015-11-02
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 16
In other tax matters, our third quarter Form 10-Q will discuss the recent settlement with the IRS from the 2008-2009
audit. The agreement on treatment for our 2009 position regarding nuclear decommissioning liabilities will reduce our
federal net operating loss carryforward or NOL from $12.3 billion to approximately $1.9 billion. Having said that, there
are a couple of points I'd like to make about the settlement: first, the settlement has no material cash consequences or
impact on net income due to low utilization of the NOL. And second, while it reduces our net NOL today, we continue
to pursue our tax strategies. We expect our cash tax rate to remain below statutory rates at about 10% for the next few
years.
Turning now to EWC, as Leo discussed in his remarks, we've reached an agreement to sell Rhode Island State Energy
Center for $490 million, and expect to close the deal by the end of the year. We've also made the difficult decisions to
close Pilgrim and FitzPatrick. Each of these decisions provides greater clarity on the future of EWC.
The rating agencies have reacted positively to the focus and improvements at Utility and the difficult decisions we've
made for EWC. Following the Rhode Island and Pilgrim announcements, S&P noted the reduction of exposure to
merchant generation in support of our credit quality. And Moody's viewed the developments along with the Utility's
support of regulatory environment and improving rate design as credit positive.
A summary of our credit metrics and credit ratings can be found on slide 10. At Utility we were pleased with the
successful completion of the Louisiana business combination on October 1, and our confidence that the newly
combined Entergy Louisiana entity will bring benefits to our stakeholders. Moody's assigned the combined ELL a
rating of A2 for senior secured first mortgage bonds. At the same time, Moody's affirmed credit ratings for Entergy
Corporation and raised the outlook to positive and ratings for Entergy New Orleans were also upgraded. These positive
credit rating actions acknowledge the strong financial footing of the company. And in doing so, help preserve our
ability to access the capital needed to finance investment in the business at low cost for the benefit of our customers.
As noted on slide 11, we'll have more information at the EEI Financial Conference next week where we will continue
the discussion of our business strategy, longer-term outlooks, and 2016 drivers. This will include more detailed
information for EWC, utility sales and the opportunities and risks for our 2016 expectations. And as we have said at the
outset, we still see our Utility, Parent and Other EPS for 2016 and 2017 consistent with our previous disclosures. We
will provide detailed guidance for 2016 during our fourth quarter earnings call.
As we continue to lay the groundwork for growth, we look forward to moving ahead with our strategies to create value
for our customers, our owners, our employees and the communities we serve.
And now, the Entergy team is available to answer questions.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Praful Mehta with Citigroup. Your line is
open. Your question, please.
<Q - Praful Mehta>: Hi, guys. So I have a quick question on the cash taxes. Given the change in the NOL position
down to $1.9 billion, I know you've clarified that you will still have a pretty low cash tax rate. Can we just understand
what's the driver or what helps you get to that low cash tax rate given the NOL position change?
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Sure, Praful. This is Drew. As we've talked in the past, we have a portfolio of strategies out
there that we are pursuing and those strategies are still intact. Over time we could see the NOL start to move back up
again. But right now, we just settled, and so the NOL is back down to where it is at $1.9 billion. So we just wanted to
make sure that when you saw it come down, you'd know what the driver was and what the settlement was. The
important thing is that our tax team is still here. They're still working hard on new ideas and new strategies, and we
expect that those will continue to bear some fruit going forward.
Company Name: Entergy
Company Ticker: ETR US
Date: 2015-11-02
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 16
<Q - Praful Mehta>: Got it. Thank you. And then in terms of the FitzPatrick retirement, from a decommissioning
perspective, do you expect there to be any impact from a cash flow perspective to Entergy, or is the decommissioning
fund fully funded and how do you see that playing out?
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Well, it's Drew again. So the decommissioning fund meets all the NRC requirements, and
consistent with how Vermont Yankee did, we would expect the same kind of approach for FitzPatrick going forward.
So we wouldn't see or anticipate any cash contributions to the decommissioning trust fund associated with the
decommissioning the plant.
<Q - Praful Mehta>: I got you. Thank you, guys.
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Thank you.
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates. Your line is now open.
Your question, please?
<Q - Paul Patterson>: Yes. Hi. How are you?
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Good morning, Paul. We're doing well.
<Q - Paul Patterson>: Just in terms of the tax rate, the 10%, that's the cash tax rate. Is that correct?
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Yes, sir.
<Q - Paul Patterson>: And what's the expected book tax rate that we'll see in earnings?
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Well, the book tax rate, as you know, we don't usually give out a forecast for book tax rate
until the prompt year. There are definitely some things that could improve over the statutory rate that we've used in our
forward-looking expectations. But at this point we're not prepared to say exactly what those are. There's too many
things going on in conversations with federal tax authorities, state tax authorities, state regulators to be able to
successfully pin that down until we get closer to that time.
<Q - Paul Patterson>: Okay. And then with respect to slide 36 and it looks like you guys are going to be expensing
the fuel and other things associated with FitzPatrick and Pilgrim with special items. I'm wondering how will you guys
be treating the revenue.
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Well, the revenue will be operational. What we're going to be choosing – or not choosing.
What we'll be treating as special items are things that would otherwise had been capitalized. So any significant capital
expenditures or in the case of Pilgrim refueling, outage costs or fuel costs that would have normally otherwise had been
capitalized and amortized over coming cycles, those will be considered special items. And just for sake of making it
clear which pieces are part of the ongoing operations and which pieces aren't, that's the same approach that we used
with Vermont Yankee and we think it's more helpful that way. We'll try to be as transparent as possible about all the
moving parts in there.
<Q - Paul Patterson>: Okay. And then just in general, with the economies of scale, you've shut down three nukes in a
pretty short period of time in the northeast. Is there any impact to the economies of scale of what's left I mean in the
allocation of expenses or any thoughts on that?
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Yes. So there definitely is some lost economies of scale. We manage our nuclear fleet as a
fleet across the north and the southern utility nuclear assets. So we have a lot of economies of scale, but it will be
shrinking over the retirement schedule over the next few years. Depending on how far you go with the retirement
schedule, depends on how much of an impact that economies of scale has. For the Northeast, we do have about $35
Company Name: Entergy
Company Ticker: ETR US
Date: 2015-11-02
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 16
million of overhead at each plant, and about half of that is direct cost. And so beyond that, we'll be targeting a level of
costs that are prudent for the business size and the size of the fleet going forward to make sure the plants stay safe and
reliable.
<Q - Paul Patterson>: Okay. Thank you.
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank. Your line is open. Your
question please.
<Q - Jonathan P. Arnold>: Yes. Good morning, guys.
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Good morning, Jonathan.
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Good morning, Jonathan.
<Q - Jonathan P. Arnold>: Just to clarify, you've said very clearly that you expect the 2016 and 2017 Utility, Parent
& Other outlooks to be unchanged, or I think that's what I heard. But you're also saying that beyond the prompt year,
you'll guide to statutory tax rate. So is 2016 still good assuming a statutory tax rate, or is that one of the things that
might shift as you give us the drivers?
<A - Leo P. Denault>: It's assuming the statutory tax rate. We were trying to hold, quite frankly, Jonathan, the
forward-looking stuff to EEI, and we just removed it from this to do it at EEI next week. But it seemed to raise some
questions. So the previous disclosure that was at the statutory tax rate, that's what we were talking about.
<Q - Jonathan P. Arnold>: And so you expect that to still be the case? Okay, great. That was my question. Thanks.
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Yes, and to the earlier question about the effective tax rate, I guess. We would hope to do
better than the statutory tax rate in 2016, but we're not prepared yet to identify that. But taking that aside, we still are at
the current disclosure that we put forth previously.
<Q - Jonathan P. Arnold>: But if I may, just on one other issue around guidance. The ANO costs and you referenced
those as, I think, $85 million, which is the same number between 2015 and 2016 that was in the 10-Q. Were those
already in the guidance you showed us last quarter fully, or is there an element of that being added in?
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: No. Those are already fully baked in the guidance. They were not in the guidance that we set
up at Analyst Day last year, just to be clear. So at Analyst Day last year, it was when we originally set up our range of
where we thought the midpoint could land between $4.35 and $4.75, and it didn't include ANO at that point and it
expected higher interest rates for pension benefits, et cetera. So there are several things that have moved around, but
ANO was specifically not included at that time but it is now.
<Q - Jonathan P. Arnold>: And was it included when you showed us $3.65 last quarter?
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: $3.65 is for 2015.
<Q - Jonathan P. Arnold>: Yes.
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Just to be clear.
<Q - Jonathan P. Arnold>: Right.
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: And it was not included – when we originally set $3.65 that was at the beginning of this
year, that's before we had clarity around what ANO was going to be. So it was not included in the $3.65.
<Q - Jonathan P. Arnold>: Okay. So that's part of the change to this $3.30 number.
Company Name: Entergy
Company Ticker: ETR US
Date: 2015-11-02
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 16
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Yes. That's exactly right. So the drivers between the $3.65 and the $3.30, I think it's in my
script but it's like $0.17 is related to ANO and -- I'm sorry, what was that?
<A - Leo P. Denault>: $0.06 O&M and...
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Oh, yes, $0.06 O&M and some other stuff.
<Q - Jonathan P. Arnold>: Okay. And so similarly on the 2016 outlook, the $35 million of ANO that you disclosed in
the 10-Q would not have been in that range, but you're saying the range is still good, so something else must have
offset it.
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: That's right. What we said -- the lower end of the range is what we previously had said.
<Q - Jonathan P. Arnold>: Right. That was, again, without the ANO drag. Am I right in that?
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: That is with the ANO drag.
<Q - Jonathan P. Arnold>: The lower end comment included the ANO drag, but it wasn't in the 2015 $3.65?
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: That's correct.
<Q - Jonathan P. Arnold>: Okay. Great, that's...
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: I'm sorry. I think I'm confusing you worse than I really need to, but our original guidance for
2016 was $4.35 to $4.75. Where we said at the lower end, that includes ANO.
<Q - Jonathan P. Arnold>: Okay.
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: For 2015, it was at $3.65. That did not include ANO, but the $3.30 does now.
<Q - Jonathan P. Arnold>: Perfect. That is very clear. Thank you.
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Thanks, Jonathan.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS. Your line is now open. Your
question, please.
<Q - Julien Dumoulin-Smith>: Hi. Good morning.
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Good morning.
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Good morning.
<Q - Julien Dumoulin-Smith>: So, let me actually start where you guys just left off there. In terms of
weather-normalized impact, the 2015 update you just provided, I know you just alluded to the ANO negative hit, but
you've had $0.23, if I have this year-to-date positive weather. What's kind of the impact of the weather-normalized
sales year-to-date, if you will?
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: I believe that the weather-normalized sales year-to-date -- I don't know what the year – I
can't think of the year-to-date number off the top of my head. For the full year...
<Q - Julien Dumoulin-Smith>: Or for the – yeah, versus the guidance update you just did.
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Right. For the full year, I believe, it's $0.07, of which about $0.08 is residential weather, so –
not weather, just residential, weather-adjusted.
<Q - Julien Dumoulin-Smith>: Got it. $0.07 negative versus the $0.23 positive weather.
Company Name: Entergy
Company Ticker: ETR US
Date: 2015-11-02
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 16
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Yeah. That's correct.
<Q - Julien Dumoulin-Smith>: Got it. All right. Excellent.
Turning to the more strategic issues, looking at the Nuclear business today, how are you thinking about Indian Point? I
mean, is this something – Indian Point, Palisades -- this is something that you would consider continuing to own just as
two standalone units given the contained portfolio benefits of owning it in the context of the regulated business? Or is
this something that you would imagine that you could arrive at a strategic juncture on?
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Well. Julien, this is Leo, I mean, obviously we continue to evaluate what the best thing to do
with those assets is. But as we mentioned before and when they were talking about overheads a moment ago in that
discussion, we still have economies of scale and an operating capability within nuclear assets.
And as Drew mentioned, we do operate the facilities as a fleet. And we can continue to do that from an operational
standpoint. And so, we're prepared to do that. Doesn't mean we aren't looking at alternatives, but as you know, the
alternatives around Indian Point are limited and then we'll just have to go from here.
But obviously, we can do it and we will if we have to. And it's not a problem for us, but the strategic options, obviously
become limited given the regulatory approvals required, et cetera.
<Q - Julien Dumoulin-Smith>: Right. And just this clarification there in the spring refueling outage on Pilgrim, that's
a final decision now that you intend to pursue that rather than retire going into that?
<A - Leo P. Denault>: We have not – in which year?
<Q - Julien Dumoulin-Smith>: The spring 2017 refueling outage, have you committed to doing that or is there still
the thought process you could buy back the capacity?
<A - Leo P. Denault>: No. We have not committed to do that yet.
<Q - Julien Dumoulin-Smith>: Okay. Great. Thank you.
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc. Your line is now open. Your
question, please?
<Q - Paul T. Ridzon>: Good morning. How are you?
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Good. Good. How are you?
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Good morning, Paul.
<Q - Paul T. Ridzon>: Quick question, on Jonathan Arnold's question, you referenced $3.30. Is that really the $3.35 I
see on slide nine?
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Oh, yes. I apologize. Yes, it's $3.35.
<Q - Paul T. Ridzon>: And year-to-date, UP&O is at $3.55, so does that imply we're going to have a loss in the fourth
quarter?
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: That's including tax and weather – the $3.30 is tax, weather and special items adjusted.
<Q - Paul T. Ridzon>: And your year-to-date...
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: And we're not anticipating a loss in the fourth quarter, if that's what you're asking.
Company Name: Entergy
Company Ticker: ETR US
Date: 2015-11-02
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 16
<Q - Paul T. Ridzon>: But your year-to-date results are $3.55 at UP&O. I'm just trying to bridge between – from here
to there.
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: So that including – that includes weather and taxes, I believe.
<Q - Paul T. Ridzon>: Okay, so $3.35 does not include weather.
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: That's correct.
<Q - Paul T. Ridzon>: Got it. Okay. And then, is $15 million this year and $35 million next year still the right split for
ANO?
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Yes. That's correct.
<Q - Paul T. Ridzon>: Thank you very much for your help.
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open. Your
question please.
<Q - Stephen Calder Byrd>: Hi. Good morning.
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Good morning, Stephen.
<Q - Stephen Calder Byrd>: I wanted to just follow up on FitzPatrick and check whether there are any limits on being
able to put the plant into safe store, or if there are other approaches being discussed that would be perhaps more rapid
on the actual decommissioning of the facility. Should we be assuming a long-term safe-store option, or is that still to be
determined?
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Bill, why don't you go ahead and answer that.
<A - William M. Mohl>: Sure. Stephen, this is Bill. Yeah. I think you should generally assume a safe-store option.
We're going to have to go through the process of getting a detailed decommissioning cost estimate put together and
then file our post-shutdown activity report closer to the shutdown date. But we are assuming the same type of approach
we used at Vermont Yankee.
<Q - Stephen Calder Byrd>: Understood. And just on Indian Point, there's been a series of extensions of the standstill
agreement with the State of New York on sort of CZM-related topics. Should we be thinking given that there have been
those extensions that there is very much an active dialogue going on there or active discussions? It struck me as likely
that there are active discussions given the continued short-term extensions of that standstill. Any color on the dialogue
there?
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Bill?
<A - William M. Mohl>: Yeah. Stephen, we have been in some active discussions, but that standstill agreement did
expire. So we'll kind of go back to our position on that before we executed the standstill. Again, we feel very confident
in our legal position that we had an effective withdrawal of that CZM application. And as always, we're open to
constructive discussions with the state.
<Q - Stephen Calder Byrd>: Great. Thank you very much.
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Thank you.
Company Name: Entergy
Company Ticker: ETR US
Date: 2015-11-02
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 16
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman with Wolfe Research. Your line is now open.
Your question please.
<Q - Steven Isaac Fleishman>: Yeah. Thanks. Couple of questions. First, Leo, could you maybe give us some sense
of the how you kind of came at the dividend decision that you did in terms of, I don't know, just target payout or
something of that sort?
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Sure, Steve. With the growth in investment and rate base and resulting earnings growth, Utility,
Parent and Other as we've been mentioning for some time, it's our objective to provide a glide path into a consistent,
more predictable dividend path. As we've mentioned in the past, we've taken more of I guess a lumpy approach to it,
where we raised it 29% one year, and then we take a few years off, and we raised it $0.10 or something like that.
So, as we look out into the future, consistent with our expectations around the growth in the Utility, Parent and Other
segment of the business, we're kind of on a glide path. So we would hope to provide a consistent growth that will work
its way into that payout ratio over the next few years.
<Q - Steven Isaac Fleishman>: Which is the payout ratio target, is it 65% to 75%?
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Correct. Correct.
<Q - Steven Isaac Fleishman>: Okay.
<A - Leo P. Denault>: So at any given time, we might be over or even under depending on how we're growing the
business and then obviously it takes into consideration the reinvestment that we have and the opportunity in the Utility
for all the items that I outlined that we've put in the disclosures.
<Q - Steven Isaac Fleishman>: Okay. Just one question on the nuclear. Just you guys historically used to have kind of
top tier nuclear operations, so kind of having the ANO and Pilgrim kind of in this Tier 4 was definitely a change. And
I'm just – I think, there's been some changes in management, and I'm just curious, is there – what are the implications
for the broader nuclear fleet at Entergy, overall nuclear costs? Are these really just specific issues just for these two
facilities?
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Well, first, Steve, we take the operations of the fleet – obviously, the safe, secure, and reliable
operations of the fleet very seriously. We did have a couple of issues that kind of compounded on each other at both
facilities to get us into Column 4. We would anticipate that this is not going to happen anywhere else, and that we'll
work our way out of these judiciously and expeditiously with the NRC over the coming couple years.
<Q - Steven Isaac Fleishman>: So it's not cost like for the overall organization or the other plants...
<A - Leo P. Denault>: No.
<Q - Steven Isaac Fleishman>: ...related to that. Okay. Great. And then last question just in terms of the FitzPatrick
decision, there has been a decent amount of articles just kind of on the political aspects of that. Potentially, I mean – is
there any sense of any reaction we might see from this not only just at FitzPatrick, but also maybe Indian Point in terms
of kind of political regulatory stuff?
<A - Leo P. Denault>: That – I can't really comment on that, Steve. I mean, we did work to try and come up with some
way to extend the life of FitzPatrick and we were unable to do that. It's in everybody's best interest, but it just wasn't
possible. But the state officials worked just as hard as we did, as I mentioned in my script, to come to a solution. Some
things are just difficult. As you saw from the disclosures, there's a lot of money lost at the facility, and that's certainly a
difficult thing to overcome. But we certainly aren't out looking for any kind of political issues.
<Q - Steven Isaac Fleishman>: Okay. Thanks so much.
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Thank you.
Company Name: Entergy
Company Ticker: ETR US
Date: 2015-11-02
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 16
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs. Your line is now open.
Your question, please.
<Q - Michael J. Lapides>: Hey, guys. Yeah. Just curious on FitzPatrick's decision. Can you give us a view of how
material from an EPS and from a cash flow accretion and dilution the retirement is for kind of 2017 and beyond?
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: It's Drew, Michael. So, from a cash flow perspective, we are going to be cash flow positive
over the next few years, consistent with the disclosure there of $225 million to $275 million. And so that's the biggest
piece. I mean, I think that comes from the fact that we're basically operating at a loss there, and we're also would be
incurring costs associated with capital and refueling going forward.
So, I think that's a – those are the biggest things from a cash perspective. From a net income perspective, there's going
to be – there's a lot going on. Because of the impairments, you're going to see the costs associated with the refueling
outages and the fuel expense that we have. Those are going to be reduced considerably. Obviously, the depreciation is
going to come way down. The one thing that's a little different for FitzPatrick is the decommissioning cost, the
decommissioning expenses that's – currently the fund is still sitting over with NYPA. And so, we're not – we won't see
any changes there until a point where we actually get the fund and the liability over to us. So that's a little different than
Vermont Yankee and Pilgrim going forward.
So those are some of the main drivers that you'll see, I think, if we are thinking about the income statement for that
business.
<Q - Michael J. Lapides>: Okay. But if I'm just kind of – I think my question is kind of focused on kind of the
materialness, if there is such a word, of how earnings accretive would it be if I looked at kind of 2015 run rate versus
2017 and beyond post retirement and how cash flow accretive? Directionally, are we talking huge level of accretion or
dilution, either of those, tiny, middle of the road?
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Well, I think, $225 million to $275 million is, that's materially accretive to me in terms of
cash. The earnings piece is not – is going to be accretive, but it's not going to be hugely accretive upfront. There'll be
some accretion in 2016 and then in 2017, we'll start incurring the decommissioning cost and stuff like that. We're going
to provide some better transparency around what we think the drivers are at the EEI conference next week.
<Q - Michael J. Lapides>: Got it. Okay. Thanks, Drew.
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: [indiscernible] (48:57)
<Q - Michael J. Lapides>: Much appreciated.
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: No problem.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Neel Mitra with Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Company. Your line is
open. Your question, please.
<Q - Neel Mitra>: Hi. Good morning.
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Good morning.
<Q - Neel Mitra>: Just wanted to clarify where you are with the industrial sales growth; obviously, it was better this
quarter than last quarter, but still not up to kind of the 5% that you're guiding to. When do you expect it to really ramp
up? And what are the factors that you're evaluating right now?
Company Name: Entergy
Company Ticker: ETR US
Date: 2015-11-02
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 16
<A - Theodore H. Bunting>: Neel, this is Theo. You mentioned the 5% we were guiding to. I think we started the year
at about 4.4% for 2015. And what we've seen is our new and expansions have come online, they've come online as we
said a little slow, some have been delayed, the ramp-ups have been slower than anticipated. But what we've also seen in
the first two quarters of 2015 was we saw some lower volumes with our existing customers, and as you recall in the
first couple of quarters, that was really big – had a big impact on the lower than expectations in terms of the industrial
sales.
As Drew mentioned in his script, we saw a comeback relative to that in the third quarter, especially in the petroleum
refinery area. And from that perspective, in that particular segment, we expect to see that returning to the levels we
somewhat expected as we go forward. He also mentioned in the fourth quarter, we've got an existing customer probably
in the chlor-alkali sector that is going through some outages. And so, we won't see – likely not to see the volumetric
changes in the fourth quarter that we saw in the third quarter. But again, those are outage related. And as Drew also
mentioned, you generally don't see a relative relationship in terms of revenue change relative to volume change when
that happens with existing customers.
In terms of the drivers, I think we are seeing some things that others are experiencing, stronger dollar, kind of weaker
commodity prices, and it's challenging our expectations, as we've said before. What we see happening primarily is
delays in some cases, and as I said earlier, ramp-ups not happening as soon as we had thought. But we'll provide more
color around that at EEI in terms of really diving more into what we expect to see in 2016 and going forward.
<Q - Neel Mitra>: Okay. And just as a follow-up with the 2016 and 2017 Utility EPS, is that more contingent upon
rate based growth or sales growth? And are the two related over the next two years or three years? How are you looking
at that?
<A - Theodore H. Bunting>: This is Theo again. I'll start and Drew may also have comments relative to this. But the
two are related. The growth, as we all know, in this business is really driven by rate base at the end of the day. And
from our perspective, our investment thesis is still intact. And we see the opportunity, as we've laid out in the past, to
continue to make the investments that we've talked about. And it's not so much dependent upon the level of sales. Sales
is an opportunity for us to mitigate the impacts of those rate based growth changes. And clearly with our sales volumes,
we have the opportunity to mitigate that probably much better than maybe some others once you see that don't have the
level of robustness as it relates to sales growth.
But again, the volumes do help in terms of getting to ROEs. And as we've shown in this last report, it's really a
combination of the two to some extent. But again, the growth is really tied to the investment thesis, and that thesis,
from our perspective, is still well intact.
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Yeah, that's true. I'll just add that the big drivers are going to be getting the Union deal done
and then the regulatory actions in Arkansas and in Texas, getting those resolved, primarily to get the investment that
Theo is talking about into rates. And then the sales growth is going to be helpful, but it's an element of lag reduction as
we see it. And there are some O&M benefits out there we talked about earlier, ANO rolling off hopefully by the end of
next year. And then we continue to see our pension expenses coming down, and we do see some higher operating costs
this year because of some of the nuclear compliance costs and other things that we see, so we expect that to moderate a
bit going forward as well. So, those are the main drivers, they shift a little bit as you go from 2015 to 2016 and then to
2016 to 2017. But they're pretty much the same.
<Q - Neel Mitra>: Thank you very much.
<A - Theodore H. Bunting>: Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman with Morningstar. Your line is open. Your
question please.
Company Name: Entergy
Company Ticker: ETR US
Date: 2015-11-02
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 16
<Q - Charles J. Fishman>: Good morning.
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Morning.
<Q - Charles J. Fishman>: Make sure I understand this: the ANO Column 4, enhanced inspections and the associated
spending -- you see a path that that would be eliminated after next year?
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Yes. That's – goal is to get out of Column 4 and reduce the compliance cost associated with
being in that regulatory situation.
<Q - Charles J. Fishman>: Okay. And then just the second question on the lower residential sales. Just an anomaly for
the third quarter, you seeing more energy efficiency. Do you have any other color you could provide on that?
<A - Theodore H. Bunting>: Charles, this is Theo. I mean, as we've talked I think on previous calls, I think like most
other utilities, we are seeing energy efficiency impacts, federal programs as well as programs that we have specific to
our states. We generally talked in terms of kind of organic residential growth in the 1% area and we see that somewhat
being challenged through this year and we saw it somewhat last year as well.
In terms of third quarter, we had two years where we had fairly moderate weather last year and fairly positive weather
this year. And when you see those swings like that year-over-year, sometimes the adjustment in terms of the weather
for periods like that gets little challenged. And so, we continue to watch and monitor the residential sales volumes. I'll
note also we saw 1.2% growth in commercial in the quarter as well, but it is something we pay a lot of attention to and
continue to look at. From our perspective, we don't see a kind of flat to negative as a trend, but it is something for us to
continue to monitor as it relates to our view of our organic residential growth.
<Q - Charles J. Fishman>: Okay. Thank you. I'll save my rest for EEI.
<A - Leo P. Denault>: All right. Thanks.
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Thanks, Charles.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Shahriar Pourreza with Guggenheim Partners. Your line is now
open. Your question please.
<Q - Shahriar Pourreza>: Hey, guys.
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: Hey. Good morning, Shahriar.
<Q - Shahriar Pourreza>: Most of my questions were answered. Just on FitzPatrick, is there any situation where you
could think of where you would have to use decomm versus safe-store?
<A - Andrew S. Marsh>: This is Drew. The safe-store option is the one that gives you the most time to allow the fund
to grow to meet your decommissioning needs. So, that seemed like a likely candidate, but I don't know if Bill Mohl
wants to add anything and...
<A - William M. Mohl>: Yeah. So, again, we'll have to go through and calculate our costs. We've got $728 million in
the fund. And we'll go through the same process of kind of looking and forecasting when the fund would grow to have
an adequate amount to begin decommissioning. According to the NRC you have to have it fully funded before you can
start. So, it'll be some form of safe-store, probably won't go to the end of six years, but depending on that cost estimate,
it will be out in the future, so.
<Q - Shahriar Pourreza>: And then you don't expect any indirect influence from New York to shut the plant down
quicker?
<A - William M. Mohl>: No. Nothing that we're aware of at this time.
Company Name: Entergy
Company Ticker: ETR US
Date: 2015-11-02
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 16 of 16
<Q - Shahriar Pourreza>: Okay. Got it. And then just what caused the talks to break down? Was it sort of – was an
RMR contract an option as a bridge? So, maybe a little bit of color on that.
<A - William M. Mohl>: Sure.
<A - Leo P. Denault>: Sure. We're not really going to get into any of that.
<A - William M. Mohl>: Yeah. We can explain the RMR issue. We're not going to obviously discuss any details or
discussion. But we previously had the New York ISO do some analysis regarding the FitzPatrick plant as to whether or
not it qualifies as a reliability must-run. And that most recent analysis indicates that it does not.
So, we have submitted our shutdown notifications to the PSC and the New York ISO as of today. They will have to
update that study, but we certainly do not expect that answer to change. And as Leo suggested, all of our discussions
with New York are really confidential and not appropriate for us to comment on any details.
<Q - Shahriar Pourreza>: Excellent. Thank you so much.
Operator
Thank you. I'd like to now turn the call over to Paula Waters for any additional remarks.
Paula Waters
Thank you, Roland. And thanks to all for participating this morning. Before we close, we remind you to refer to our
release and website for Safe Harbor and Regulation G compliance statements. We will file our Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q with the SEC later this week. The Form 10-Q provides more details and disclosures about our financial
statements.
Please note that events that occur prior to the date of our 10-Q filings that provide additional evidence of conditions
that existed at the time, the date of the balance sheet would be reflected in our financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. The call was recorded and can be accessed on our website or by dialing
855-859-2056, replay code 60315863. The telephone replay will be available through Monday, November 9, 2015.
This concludes our call. Thank you.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your participation. This does conclude the program and you may
disconnect. Everyone have a wonderful day.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.