Company Name: Dow Chemical
Company Ticker: DOW US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 15
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Jack Broodo
• Howard I. Ungerleider
• Andrew N. Liveris
Other Participants
• P.J. Juvekar
• Steve Byrne
• Frank J. Mitsch
• Jeffrey J. Zekauskas
• Peter E. Butler
• David I. Begleiter
• Don Carson
• Hassan I. Ahmed
• John E. Roberts
• Robert Andrew Koort
• Jonas Oxgaard
• Vincent Stephen Andrews
• Jim M. Sheehan
• Aleksey Yefremov
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day, and welcome to The Dow Chemical Company's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Also today's call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Jack Broodo. Please go ahead, sir.
Jack Broodo
Good morning and welcome. I'm Jack Broodo, Vice President of Investor Relations. As usual, we are making this call
available to investors and the media via webcast. This call is the property of The Dow Chemical Company. Any
redistribution, retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without Dow's expressed written consent is strictly
prohibited.
On the call with me today are Andrew Liveris, Dow's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Howard Ungerleider,
Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer (sic) [Chief Financial Officer and
Executive Vice President].
Around 7 a.m. this morning, October 22, our earnings release went out on Business Wire and was posted on the
Internet on dow.com. We have prepared slides to supplement our comments in this conference call. These slides are
Company Name: Dow Chemical
Company Ticker: DOW US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 15
posted on our website and through the link to our webcast.
Some of our comments today include statements about expectations for the future. Those expectations involve risks and
uncertainties. We cannot guarantee the accuracy of any forecast or estimates, and we don't plan to update any
forward-looking statements during the quarter. If you would like more information on risk involved in forward-looking
statements, please see our SEC filings.
In addition, some of our comments reference non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation to the most directly
comparable GAAP financial measure, and other associated disclosures are contained in our earnings release, and on our
website.
Unless otherwise specified, all comparisons presented today will be on a year-over-year basis. Sales comparisons
exclude divestitures and acquisitions, EBITDA, EBITDA margins; return on capital and earnings comparisons exclude
certain items.
The agenda for today's call is on slide three.
I will now turn the call over to Howard.
Howard I. Ungerleider
Thanks, Jack, and good morning, everyone. Turning to slide four, our results this quarter demonstrate once again the
value of Dow's integrated, structurally hedged portfolio, our focus on execution, and the strong financial position the
company has built. Operating EPS rose to $0.82, an increase of 14% year-over-year. Operating EBITDA rose to $2.4
billion versus the same quarter last year on continued demand growth, margin expansion and self-help actions.
Volume grew in nearly all geographic areas, reflecting stable underlying demand for Dow's innovative solutions, and
operating EBITDA margins expanded in nearly all operating segments, reaching 20%, up 370 basis points
year-over-year, the highest quarterly results since 2005.
Our disciplined approach to price/volume management enabled us to deliver these results even in the midst of ongoing
and significant top line headwinds with year-over-year price declines in oil of 50%; and currency headwinds of 17% for
the euro, and 51% for the Brazilian real.
The consistent earnings growth, margin expansion and strong cash flow results we delivered in Q3 continue the steady
drumbeat over the last 12 quarters, and underpin our ability to return increasing value to our owners, as illustrated on
slide five. As we have covered in past quarters, we benchmark our quarterly results against our key financial goals that
provide a clear view on our performance.
Quarterly EPS has grown at a 21% CAGR over the last three years on an operating basis, and I think it's important to
note that the one-time gains resulting from portfolio actions has resulted in an additional $0.71 of as reported EPS,
above the year-to-date operating EPS of $2.58.
ROC is now 11.9%, up more than 170 basis points versus the same quarter last year, and we expect ongoing
improvement as our growth levers, particularly on the U.S. Gulf Coast and in Saudi Arabia, continue to produce, and as
we complete our portfolio management actions.
Cash from operations reached $2.5 billion in the quarter, up $700 million or 41% versus the year-ago period, and has
now reached $8 billion over the last 12 months, and we continue to return this cash to shareholders. Year-to-date, Dow
has returned $1.9 billion to shareholders through declared dividends and share repurchases.
Additionally, our recent completion of the Dow Chlorine Products divestment, which successfully closed on October 5,
had a tax-efficient value of $5 billion or a taxable equivalent value in excess of $7.5 billion. This is a significant value
for a commodity business, and created a win-win-win for Dow, for Olin and for the shareholders of both companies.
Overall, as a result of this transaction, our net debt went down by $3 billion, and $1.5 billion in Olin common stock was
Company Name: Dow Chemical
Company Ticker: DOW US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 15
distributed to Dow's shareholders in exchange for 34.1 million shares of Dow's stock. A slide is available in the
appendix for additional details.
Let's please now turn to segment operating results on slide eight. In Ag Sciences, operating EBITDA for the segment
was down from the year-ago period, reflecting declines in price, the sale of AgroFresh, and a gain of $44 million from
the one-time sale of a joint venture. The business saw a continued strong demand for new crop protection molecules
with a 40% increase in new product sales versus the same quarter of last year, and an 8% increase year-to-date, led by
strong growth in spinetoram insecticide.
Results in the quarter also reflected significant improvement in year-over-year cost reduction actions. Overall, the ag
market continues to be challenged with high inventory levels and currency pressures more than offsetting higher
volume gains in Europe, Middle East, Africa, India, as well as North America.
We do expect ongoing weakness to continue over the next 12 months to 24 months. While conditions in Brazil Ag were
weak in the quarter, Dow continues to gain share and in fact has now moved up to second place in corn seed market
share. We also achieved a significant regulatory milestone with the approval of ENLIST cotton.
Moving to slide nine, Consumer Solutions reported record operating EBITDA despite a year-over-year decline in
equity earnings. Dow Automotive Solutions achieved a quarterly operating EBITDA record, reflecting growth in both
OEMs, as we see continued adoption of aluminum, high-strength steel and composites, as well as in our aftermarket
segments. Our business continues to outpace industry growth, driven by Dow's innovative structural adhesive solutions,
and there is significant upside potential as we continue to expand into adjacent applications.
Consumer care volume grew in pharma and personal care sectors, offset by sales declines in the lower-margin
homecare and industrial markets as well as by ongoing currency headwinds. We continue to see demand strength in the
high-value portions of our cellulosics chain.
In Dow Electronic Materials, EBITDA growth in semiconductor and display was offset by declines in Interconnect
Technologies. Display profitability was improved this quarter by self-help actions, including the intentional exit of
low-margin business and our focus on upgrading the portfolio.
Turning now to Infrastructure Solutions on slide 10, overall operating EBITDA for the segment decreased as growth
within several businesses was offset by declines in equity earnings, reflecting a one-time tax credit Dow Corning
received in the third quarter of 2014.
Dow Building & Construction reported record quarterly operating EBITDA as well as volume growth in most regions,
particularly in cellulosics and spray foam technologies. Our innovative product lines are driving growth that is
outpacing that of global construction markets, and our proprietary flame retardant technology is capturing attractive
licensing income.
Dow Coating Materials reported volume gains in most regions, led by double-digit growth in EMEAI. The business has
expanded its market participation with a robust innovation pipeline in new vinyl acrylic binders and rheology modifiers
across a broad range of customers. On a global scale, Performance Monomers continues to remain in industry-wide
trough-like conditions.
Energy & Water Solutions reported double-digit volume growth in emerging markets for reverse osmosis solutions,
partially offsetting declines in energy sales in North America.
Turning to slide 11, Performance Materials & Chemicals reported a decline in EBITDA, reflecting the impact of
divestitures and lower MEG pricing. Strong volume in Asia, as well as in a majority of businesses, was more than
offset by global pricing pressures and ongoing currency headwinds.
Industrial Solutions reported earnings declines due to compressed glycol margins and weakness in North America oil
and gas drilling demand. Polyurethanes once again continued to deliver strong volume growth with share gains due to
broader market participation, expanding System House sales, the start-up of our Thailand polyols plant as well as
underlying fundamental demand growth in EMEAI and Asia-Pacific.
Company Name: Dow Chemical
Company Ticker: DOW US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 15
On slide 12, Performance Plastics' EBITDA achieved record levels due to robust demand in all businesses. Dow
Packaging and Specialty Plastics reported a record quarterly operating EBITDA as the business captured gains from
demand growth in emerging markets, high operating rates, strong asset reliability and tight inventory across the chain.
Dow Elastomers delivered a second consecutive quarterly operating EBITDA record due to demand in key markets
such as transportation, high-end footwear and infrastructure. And Dow Electrical and Telecommunications also
reported volume growth in North America and EMEAI as new home sales and construction spending rates trended
higher.
Turning to slide 13, we want to illustrate the importance over time of owning the full polyolefin value chain. As you
can see, the source of income has shifted over time. It's hard to predict which bucket the value will come from in any
given period. In the 2002 trough, for example, the ethylene to naphtha spread was high in very weak markets, with
some contribution from the oil to gas spread. Our differentiation in 2002 was much lower than it is today.
In the strong markets of 2005, there was virtually no oil to gas spread. In 2009, Dow retained market share and decent
trough margins due to product differentiation, while competitors that didn't own a differentiation or feedstock
flexibility struggled to the brink of insolvency. In 2014, the oil to gas spread was the main driver of margins but
full-chain integration and differentiation played an important role. This differentiation for Dow is based on unique
polymers, catalyst, process and co-monomer combinations.
In 2015, the margin has been shifting to both the polymer and to differentiation as supply/demand tightness, especially
across the integrated chain, continues to progress, even in a climate of soft GDP. The Dow strategy has been to
continue to be a leader in all three of the margin opportunity buckets, leveraging the Dow material science backbone to
provide differentiation that amplifies that performance.
I also want to take a minute and share our latest outlook on supply/demand for the ethylene/polyethylene value chain
on slide 14. This outlook utilizes the most recent GDP forecasts, assumes historical growth multiples to GDP, a
gradually recovering China, as well as the latest data on capacity additions.
Integrated polyethylene and elastomer balances are tight today, and the outlook indicates these balances will stay tight
for at least the next several years. Additional tightness is likely to come from an industry operating reliability issues,
both at the monomer and polymer stages of the value chain. As we have discussed many times, much of these assets are
old, and unplanned outages across the sector have been, and likely will continue to happen at relatively higher
frequencies.
With these tight industry balances, any significant unexpected operating event will be met by shortages, and a pricing
response, which has certainly had an impact on conditions in the U.S., Europe and Asia in the last two years. The
bottom line in our view is that, Dow is well-positioned for favorable ethylene and polyethylene industry conditions
through at least 2020, based on current announcements and timing to complete the projects.
Before I turn it over to Andrew, let me provide some modeling guidance heading into the fourth quarter on slide 15. I'll
just cover some highlights. On a year-over-year basis, the fourth quarter will be impacted by divestitures, mainly
AgroFresh, Angus, sodium borohydride and Dow Chlorine Products in three material ways.
First, on the revenue line, please remember revenue will be lower by between $1.3 billion and $1.8 billion. We also
expect to realize a negative impact on EBITDA of between $150 million and $225 million, and depreciation and
amortization will be lower by between $35 million and $50 million.
The other item I'd like to point out is the tax rate for the fourth quarter, will likely be between 24% and 27% on an
operating basis. If Congress enacts the extenders R&D benefit before year-end, we will settle at the lower end of the
range.
As you all know, we closed the Dow Chlorine Products Dow transaction on October 5, which will have a tax impact on
the as-reported earnings in the fourth quarter. As a result, we expect our as-reported tax rate will be between 10% to
13%. Once again we provided the popular macroeconomic heat map in the appendix of the presentation.
Company Name: Dow Chemical
Company Ticker: DOW US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 15
And now, I'd like to turn the call over to Andrew, who'll provide an update on our outlook, as well as our strategic
drivers for the next 24 months. Andrew?
Andrew N. Liveris
Yeah, thank you, Howard. And slide 16, you'll just see in a few moments, I'm going to share the next series of our goals
that our board and our management have come up with for our portfolio transformation over these next two years to
three years. If you reference slide 17, at our Investor Day in 2014, we summarized what you could expect from Dow
for the next 12 months, and this series of commitments was a continuum from our 2013 strategy reviews, undertaken
by our board, which culminated in a series of choices in our growth engines, and our self-help actions.
And what underpin those reviews in 2013, and was reinforced by our statements at the Investor Forum in 2014 is that,
we are an emergent and are a cash flow story; that our portfolio fine-tuning would continue with an acute focus on
carving out our chlorine chain and cleaning up our joint ventures; that we would raise our divestment target to $7
billion to $8.5 billion; and that we would continue to fund innovation and organic growth with no big M&A; and that
we would return cash to our shareholders through dividend increases and share buybacks.
Slide 18 is a readout of how we did versus what we said. We have overachieved our targets, and there is no gap
between what we said, and what we did. We have built a portfolio that has as its foundation, both integration and
innovation, and is structurally hedged to handle all economic conditions. And as I've already referenced, is a cash flow
machine.
Let's go to slide 19. As a result of these achievements, the Dow board and management have deliberated on our focus
for the next 24 months to 36 months, and we've built a simple roadmap for this period. And the goals on this page are
very clear. Our execution focus over these last three years has been granular and laser-like. This will continue.
First, our productivity goal of $1 billion of cost reductions over three years, starting in 2015, will be delivered through
Dow's previously announced change management program, Dow 10.0. Second, our large assets in Sadara and on the
U.S. Gulf Coast are commencing their commissioning phases. These huge new assets will change from being
investment headwinds to cash and earnings tailwinds. Our CapEx will be ranged down to near depreciation levels over
the next two years. We anticipate no new megaprojects during these next five years. Third, we will conclude our joint
venture portfolio work by providing full clarity on our large joint ventures, and their future in Dow.
And turning to slide 20, on Kuwait, these large highly profitable JVs will pivot through equity restructuring and move
to a growth focus. Our partners in Kuwait are excited at the opportunity to consolidate all of their JVs under one
ownership umbrella, retain Dow as a minority partner, and move forward to a growth path, while extracting synergies
in their consolidation. The deal structure on this slide will yield over $3 billion of pre-tax proceeds to Dow by
mid-2016 with $1.5 billion by the end of 2015.
On slide 21, our joint venture of 72 years, Dow Corning, is a tremendous asset with a focus on specialty materials and
specialty chemicals and of course polysilicone via the Hemlock joint venture. Dow and Corning are in discussions
around a potential transaction involving Corning's ownership in Dow Corning. We will have more to say on this in the
not-too-distant future.
Slide 22. Dow's portfolio work over these last five years has been to methodically exit commodity-cyclical value
chains, such as those in styrene, butadiene, chlorine and all their derivatives. And as you can see on slide 23, these
commodities exhibit no predictability, either on their input price, which is mostly oil-based, or their output price, which
have been commoditized and genericized, and have no technology advantage. We have been successful in repositioning
the portfolio to growth markets with clear integration and technology differentiation.
Slide 23 shows how we have divested $15 billion of primarily high-beta businesses over these last six years. And what
is clear to us is that, our owners are continually looking at ways enterprises like Dow with all of our attendant
complexity can not only create value, but actually release that value.
Company Name: Dow Chemical
Company Ticker: DOW US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 15
We are very proud of what Dow has built in the agricultural market via Dow AgroSciences. This business has doubled
EBITDA over the last five years, and has the most envied technology pipeline in chemistry and in traits. By all
accounts, this is a successful business with a bright future.
So despite Dow AgroSciences being a low-beta business, there is a rationale in our opinion that given the potential
synergies in a newly-consolidating agricultural market, an attractive opportunity to release value may be upon us. As a
result, the company is only considering those prospects that will extract further value from this business, while
comparing it to the value of retaining the business.
Slide 24 and 25, the final point on our emphasis goal for the next 24 months to 36 months is captured by the notion that
we are generating a lot of cash, have more in our imminent future, and as slide 23 has shown, we have been a returner
of that cash – slide 25 is showing, we've been a returner of cash to you, our shareholders; this will continue.
We are pleased to announce our dividend increase to $1.84 a share. This represents a new historic dividend level, and
we're going to continue to accelerate in our share buybacks. We will continue to return cash to you. We have no plans
for any big new CapEx or large M&A in this timeframe.
We have built a structurally hedged portfolio with tremendous organic growth drivers; and slide 26 gives you a sense of
these growth drivers. We believe they're unique. We have built three strong, integrated pillars of value that uniquely
define our enterprise. We start with cost-advantaged monomers in geographies with attractive markets.
In the second pillar, we select into industry-leading science and engineering, enabling us to create value differentiation
with our customers. And in the third pillar, we select into attractive growth segments of key markets to lower volatility
and drive reliability of earnings and cash flow.
The first and second pillars, well, they define our integration. The second and third pillars, they define and leverage our
innovation. The key is that, no one else in this sector brings both operational and commercial excellence across all three
pillars. And if you look at slide 28, our broad scope of scientific capabilities really creates – slide 27 – really creates a
very highly competitive hurdle, not easily replicated or imitated, creating a benefit for both Dow and more importantly,
Dow's customers. Look at those examples that you can see on that slide. They're all unique, all highly-valuable to Dow
and to our customers. And looking ahead, we believe the market outlook favors the products, technologies and
geographic position of the Dow portfolio.
If you look at the market outlook on slide 29, we expect ongoing expansion of growth opportunities that will enable
Dow to continue to capture that growth, both in markets such as China, the United States and Europe, despite
challenges in soft pockets around the world, such as those in Brazil.
We anticipate strength in construction, packaging and transportation markets as well as in electronics as the
interconnectivity of the world continues to increase, and Dow is well-positioned to manage and in fact win from the
weakness in agriculture.
Our forecasts indicate that there will be a gradual recovery in the oil markets, and gas-based cracking will continue to
be advantaged. And in the midst of all of this, our new investments on the U.S. Gulf Coast and in Saudi Arabia are
coming online at exactly the right time, further boosting Dow's ability to capture and expand margins.
The bottom line is this: today's macroeconomic realities mean the importance of driving differentiation into the
portfolio will only increase, and companies that aim to win will need to invest in innovative solutions and work closely
with customers.
Overall, Dow's strategy, our integrated portfolio, our innovation engine and our proven track record of execution are
delivering results. And going forward, and as always, capturing growth where growth exists is not the only way that we
will demonstrate consistent earnings growth and strong cash flow. Our self-help and our productivity actions underpin
all of our operational and execution tactics. And our third quarter results highlight this intense focus on delivering the
potential of Dow; 12 consecutive quarters of EPS, EBITDA and margin growth; eight consecutive quarters of volume
growth; the highest EBITDA margin results since 2005.
Company Name: Dow Chemical
Company Ticker: DOW US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 15
The Dow machine is generating strong cash flows and returning that cash to its owners. And today's announcements
outline for you the next 24 months to 36 months of actions that will drive continued results and demonstrate our
commitment to being exceptional stewards of the opportunities in hands by combining exceptional capital utilization
with our drive to return cash to Dow's owners across the intermediate-, mid- and long-term horizons. Our team has
distinguished itself by its performance and it will continue to do so.
With that, Jack, let's turn to Q&A.
Jack Broodo
Thank you, Andrew. Now we will move on to your questions. First, however, I would like to remind you that my
comments regarding forward-looking statements and non-GAAP financial measures apply to both our prepared
remarks and the following Q&A.
Rochelle, would you please explain the Q&A procedure?
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question, we'll hear from P.J. Juvekar with Citi.
<Q - P.J. Juvekar>: Good morning.
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: Good morning, P.J.
<Q - P.J. Juvekar>: Hey, Howard, I like your win-win-win comment.
<A - Howard I. Ungerleider>: It was, P.J. I mean, it was a tremendous transaction for both Dow, for Olin and for all
of our shareholders. I mean it really was.
<Q - P.J. Juvekar>: So my question is on Ag. Andrew, you mentioned that you want fair value, and there's pressure to
do something, but is this the right time to divest Ag, given that Ag markets are depressed? And then on seeds, it doesn't
make any money today, but you have this great pipeline. So how do you capture all of that in your divestiture
comments?
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: You've got to take it from the two angles that we are taking it with. You've just given us
one angle, which is the retention angle. And in a consolidating Ag market, the affordability of R&D budgets and the
capturing of synergies is another angle. And if you look at the total market cap, and you look at the contribution of
Dow AgroSciences, both revenue and EBITDA, then projected EBITDA, you could take some multiples and say that
its percent of market cap is higher than its percent of either revenues or profit in the enterprise.
So that begs value release, and we have talked to many – all of our owners about that. You can entrust upon us, all of
our owners, that we will definitely compare it, as I said in my remarks, to the value of retention.
But look, we believe that over time the hurdle of doing business in this sector will only keep increasing. We've done a
phenomenal job through collaboration of building our capabilities and we've done a tremendous job, as you
acknowledged, on building the pipeline of both chemistry and traits. And we will extract full value in whatever
construct we come out with that beats anything towards retention.
Operator
And next we'll move on to Steve Byrne with Bank of America.
Company Name: Dow Chemical
Company Ticker: DOW US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 15
<Q - Steve Byrne>: Hi. Thank you. Your outlook comments include an indication of a widening oil/gas spread
benefiting your polyethylene chain. I was wondering what your thoughts were on the outlook for a looming surge of
anthracite-based petrochemical production, and do you see that as an opportunity for China to become more
competitive in this area? Any leverage you think they can pull to lower the variable costs of that industry?
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: Yeah, I really appreciate the question, and it's a recurring question. Actually, way back in
2003, 2004 China's coal-to-olefins projects were looming large, especially with the oil/gas price structures that existed
back then. Look, we have been part of it. We've actually assisted one of our partners there to actually move through the
approval process.
We at one point in time even considered participating ourselves, but in our view, despite the variable cost comment you
just made, there's unlikely to be any new projects being brought forward. These are very hard-to-run, highly-polluting
projects, very water-intensive. They're all in the wrong place, and we believe that their ability to operate even is
suspect, as already witnessed by the one that's online.
And if you throw on top of that, that there will be sub-world scale on the derivatives side and actually be mostly in the
commodity areas like glycol and gas-based, commodity-based polyethylenes and polyprop, it will have little or no
effect on the value chain comparisons to either the Middle East production, which we're a part of or the U.S.
production, which we're a part of.
Operator
And our next question, we'll hear from Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo Securities.
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: We've...
<Q - Frank J. Mitsch>: Hey, good morning...
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: ...got the Mets, Frank.
<Q - Frank J. Mitsch>: Andrew, I was just going to say that, I'm not sure who's doing a better job of managing, you or
Terry Collins of the Mets. So keep...
<Q - Howard I. Ungerleider>: Quite.
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: Terry is a Midland guy. He's born and bred in Midland.
<Q - Frank J. Mitsch>: I did not know that. I did not know that. Sorry, Howard, about the Yankees. Hey, so to...
<A - Howard I. Ungerleider>: Okay. But are you going to write the check for Cespedes? I mean, Detroit – I think
Detroit helped the Mets this season.
<Q - Frank J. Mitsch>: We are very grateful, and we're keeping Murphy. Hey Andrew, you made the comment no
large M&A, and then obviously you indicated that you are in discussions with Corning. I was wondering if you could at
least conceptually speak about the positioning of the Dow Corning joint venture within Dow proper, the logic behind it,
what your expectations might be if in fact you are able to execute on that?
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: Yeah, it's 72-year JV, despite the comments on execution with the Mets, we are not
foreshadowing an easy execution play here in terms of the partnership being such a strong one. But the good news is,
both partners know the company inside out, as you might imagine, having been on the boards of this company for a
long time. We know the company.
Look, Frank, it's just down the road here in Midland, Michigan. These synergies are very unique and are available to
one partner, i.e., Dow, and then of course there's more than that. There's the point you just made about market synergy.
As we've rebuilt our portfolio these last many years, Dow Corning has become a much more logical fit on the market
side. That wasn't true 10 years ago, and clearly whether it's in the consumer sector, the infrastructure sector, there's
Company Name: Dow Chemical
Company Ticker: DOW US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 15
electronic materials, building and construction, home and personal care, we also see growth synergies on the market
side. This will only happen if it's value accretive to both companies, the win-win-win of Olin, if we can construct it
here, something might happen.
But we've been very public about JVs and bringing them on balance sheet or off balance sheet. The Kuwait
announcement is obviously moving the other direction, and we anticipate that if something happens here, it'll only
happen because it's hugely value creating.
Operator
And next we'll move onto Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
<Q - Jeffrey J. Zekauskas>: Maybe, I can ask Frank's question in a different way. If there are no large M&A
transactions that you plan, but there is something that you plan with Dow Corning, is it that we would roll-out that Dow
would buy the piece of Dow Corning that it doesn't own, because you don't plan to make large acquisitions? Of course
that might not be the right inference.
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: Yeah, look, I don't want to be – there's no vagueness in the two commentaries, just to be
very clear.
<Q - Jeffrey J. Zekauskas>: Sure.
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: There's no big M&A outside of our joint venture work. We've been very clear. Our joint
venture work is our joint venture work, and we'll consolidate or deconsolidate, and yes, some people might say that's
big M&A, but no, it's not big M&A because it's a joint venture that we're either consolidating or deconsolidating.
There's no problem with those statements co-existing, Jeff, but I understand your point. There could be cash outlay
here. But there'll only be cash outlay if it's hugely accretive, I mean, just to be very clear.
Operator
And next, we'll move on to Peter Butler with Glen Hill Investment.
<Q - Peter E. Butler>: Yeah, good morning, Andrew.
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: Hi, Peter.
<Q - Peter E. Butler>: Is in fact your stock market goal, is to become a sustainable earnings growth story to replace
the old Dow cyclical growth story? And if so, could you talk some about what remains to be done on your M&A and
restructuring program? What might reasonably happen in the next, say, year and a half?
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: Yeah. So the three-year goals that we punched out today are very clear. We believe that the
Kuwait joint venture and the way we are restructuring that will yield cash, and of course for them it will yield growth,
so it's a win-win-win. We believe that we have got bolt-on M&A in our future, but no big M&A to Jeff's question, other
than whatever we end up doing with Dow Corning.
We believe that Sadara and U.S. Gulf Coast, which by the way, Sadara is already sold out on first product, and we are
pre-marketing as we speak on polyethylene, we're bringing those assets on at exactly the right time. So the $3 billion
EBITDA run rate from the U.S. Gulf Coast assets, and the $700 million net income boost steady-state run rate on
Sadara is new cash flow. And Peter, I think the way we should all think about the company is that, it's going to be a
cash flow machine these next several years.
As you can already see, our cash flows are being boosted substantially, and if we do any degree of monetization on Ag
of any sort, that just adds even further. And so this is all going to be returned to the shareholder. We're going to be a
consistent dividend payer at the payout ratio of roughly 45%, and we're going to be a buyer of our shares, while our
Company Name: Dow Chemical
Company Ticker: DOW US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 15
shares in our view are undervalued. And I think the collective view is, you generate cash, you spend that cash to grow
organically. We've done that. We've got a lot of organic growth in our innovation pipeline, and we'll keep returning
cash to our shareholders.
Operator
And next we'll move on to Dave Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
<Q - David I. Begleiter>: Thank you. Andrew, nearer term, can you discuss polyethylene price expectations for Q4,
volumes as well. And in Performance Plastics, how do you view that business versus Q3 sequentially on an EBITDA
basis?
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: Howard, why don't you take that?
<A - Howard I. Ungerleider>: Yeah, sure. Good morning, David. Yeah, I would say look, I mean, when you think
about polyethylene around the world, and I'd point you to the slide and some of the prepared comments, but November
price increases are in the market. Positive sentiment is building. I think Andrew made some comments in some of his
interviews earlier this morning about Dow and other producers in Europe closing the order book. So our October order
books for Dow have been closed for about two weeks, and a few other producers as well. So that tells you a couple of
things.
One, inventory through the chain are low, and fundamental underlying demand in Europe is good. We've had really
strong demand in Asia. I mean, at a company level – this is a company comment, not specific to polyethylene – we had
12% volume growth in China versus same quarter a year ago, and our packaging business was north of 20%.
So this is – you're seeing demand growth in Asia, you're seeing demand growth in Europe, the U.S. economy still is the
bright spot, you've got unplanned events happening. There was a big issue in Brazil in the last week. So that just
reinforces the point. So margins over the next several years should continue to move up. That is the expectation.
Fundamental underlying demand will outstrip the additional supply growth, and that's our view.
Operator
And Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial will have our next question.
<Q - Don Carson>: Yes. A question on Ag, just on near term. On slide 15, you talk about 3% to 5% down,
sequentially. So are you expecting Ag to lose money again in fourth quarter, kind of a reversal from last year?
And then more broadly, as you look to restructure Ag or monetize your position, is DCP the model where you might do
a Reverse Morris Trust and then distribute the shares in the combined entity to Dow shareholders, so they can continue
to participate in the growth of Ag?
<A - Howard I. Ungerleider>: So, Don, good morning. Why don't I take the first question, and I'll throw it to Andrew
for the strategic. But when you think about Ag, no, I don't think we're going to lose money in the fourth quarter, but it
is soft. The market is soft, highly competitive price environment, we're still dealing with significant currency
headwinds. I mean, Brazil in the third quarter was a 50% drop versus a year ago, you've got economic issues in Brazil,
Argentina is certainly – we potentially have a devaluation coming here in the fourth quarter after the election, so we've
got to get through that.
But my point would be in a down market, we are winning. We're winning with our new molecules on the chemistry
side. I highlighted earlier that we are now number two in Brazil corn. That's a new fact. We were number three; we are
now number two. So we are winning, and I think you're really seeing the pipeline start to come through the market on
both the chemistry side and the biotech side. Andrew, you want to handle the strategy?
Company Name: Dow Chemical
Company Ticker: DOW US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 15
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: Yeah. And Don, look, we're open to all constructs. That was a great construct with the
win-win-win of Olin, and so we're open to all constructs that release more value and actually that value stays with the
shareholders, doesn't atrophy away in a tax disadvantage deal.
Operator
And next we'll move on to Hassan Ahmed with Alembic Global.
<Q - Hassan I. Ahmed>: Morning, Andrew.
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: Morning.
<Q - Hassan I. Ahmed>: Two-part question on Performance Plastics, if I may. This is a nice sequential bump-up in
EBITDA. So the first question is that, you mentioned in the press release that Europe, obviously European margins are
strong. How did North America fair? Was it sort of flat, down? Just trying to get a sense of how feedstocks flexibility
within North America played a role in the quarter. So that's the first one.
The second one is, as you look at 2016, there seems to be a pretty heavy turnaround schedule on the ethylene side of
things, globally. So do you expect to see effective utilization rates tighten materially from here, particularly through the
first half of 2016?
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: Well, let – Howard, why don't you take those?
<A - Howard I. Ungerleider>: Yeah. I mean, certainly Europe margins were strong in the third quarter. North
America came off a little bit, but not as much as everybody was expecting or the third-party pundits were pontificating.
We've got North America operating rates in the industry are in either the very high-80%s or low to even mid-90%s.
You've got the ACC data, you had below 40 days of inventory.
So again that tells you that fundamental underlying demand is there, and we're taking advantage of that. And if you
project forward the next few years, we've added in – on our slide in the slide deck, we've added in all the new capacity.
I think frankly we've been conservative. We added nine crackers on the Gulf Coast coming on between now and 2020.
I don't think it's going to be 9, but we wanted to stress-test it and operating rates still go higher from here between now
and 2020.
Operator
And we'll move on to John Roberts with UBS.
<Q - John E. Roberts>: Morning. Why the new Executive Leadership Council separate from the Office of the
Chairman, CEO? Could you talk a little bit about the shuffling you did there?
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: Yeah, look, I wouldn't over-read anything about team structures. Every company does their
own thing. We've got the most important part of the team announcement you saw today, John, is the team at the top.
The top three of this company, Howard, Jim, and I; we're going to run the company. Howard and Jim have got
significant responsibilities, new responsibilities, very excited by that. It's a very strong team. Actually we've had this
team in place for a long time now, and they continue to show exceptional performance, as this quarter has shown.
But the team that also reports to the CEO, all the governance functions, some of the key functions that now report to
Jim and Howard, we're going to pull that together as an Executive Leadership Council, that gets together and make sure
that we leverage every aspect of this company.
But the three of us have everything and the three of us – there was a term used at Dow for historians from back in the
1970s and early 1980s called a troika. I don't know whether that means anything to anyone, but call us that if you like.
But the three of us run the company in terms of the big decisions and the operational decisions.
Company Name: Dow Chemical
Company Ticker: DOW US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 15
Operator
And we'll move on...
<A - Howard I. Ungerleider>: I think you just gave at least one of them a headline.
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: Of course.
Operator
And we'll move on to Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
<Q - Robert Andrew Koort>: Thanks very much. Andrew, I'm curious as you look about the JVs and then maybe
doing something with Ag, historically Dow has been pretty flexible. So is there an opportunity to maybe use earn-outs
or other mechanisms if you can't come to an agreement on current values for those assets?
And then secondly, I'm guessing as we go through earnings season we're not going to find many companies that
produce the numbers you showed in China, the numbers Howard talked about in the architectural paint markets in
Europe. So can you give us some sense of were there some one-offs? Was there some trade opportunity, arbitrages, or
what kind of confidence do you have that you can sustain those really pretty surprisingly strong volume trends?
Thanks.
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: Yeah. Thanks, Bob. I'll take the first one and give Howard the second. There's no question
that the Dow AgroSciences property is at the top of that beta pyramid, low beta that you saw on one of the slides in the
deck. We've nurtured it, grown it, cared for it, fed it in terms of R&D, and it's grown, grown, grown, and it now has a
technology pipeline.
In the many years we've been doing that, the board has done extensive reviews, certainly no less than semi-annually,
and some very big deep drills where we spent days at a time to look at the Ag market, because it's been obvious that
since 15 years, 10 years ago that another round of consolidation will come one day. And whenever it does, Dow should
be able to answer the questions of releasing the value in the portfolio in the best available construct. So yes, all options
are available to us, including the one you just spoke about. Howard, you want to take the polyethylene thing?
<A - Howard I. Ungerleider>: Yeah, well, and the...
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: And the China thing?
<A - Howard I. Ungerleider>: Well, on the flexibility side, I would just say, Bob, we have had a track record of being
flexible with our divestitures. So you look at, just in the last 12 months, Angus and SBH were straight divests. You
look at AgroFresh, which was a SPAC, I think we're the first Fortune 50 company to do that. I think at the time we
announced $900 million of value for AgroFresh; embedded in that transaction was an earn-out. So that will bring future
value, assuming AgroFresh delivers on their financial plan, which we're confident that they will. There's also a tax
receivable agreement.
When you add the value of the earn-out and the tax receivable agreement, that brings the AgroFresh value on an NPV
back to Dow of north of $1 billion of value. And then the Olin RMT, I mean, it just shows that we're willing to look at
everything. We've got a very – this management team has a very large focus on return on capital, and we've been
increasing ROC between 100 basis points and 150 basis points a year. And our focus is, any transaction we do, we want
it to be a help in EVA momentum and ROC increase.
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: The China question?
<A - Howard I. Ungerleider>: I'm not even sure I remember what the China question is.
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: Well, I mean, why are we seeing the contrarian...
Company Name: Dow Chemical
Company Ticker: DOW US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 15
<A - Howard I. Ungerleider>: Oh. It's simple. It really is around – it plays to our portfolio. And if you think about
where China is, they've exited this heavy industry phase, and it really is all about light industry/consumer. So you think
about our materials, whether it's RO membranes in water, whether it's our elastomers, whether it's our architectural
paints, where 10 years ago you would sell very low-end paint to a developer who would look to spray an entire
building. Today you've got people in China who have been in their apartments or their homes for 10 years. They're
making the choice and their value proposition is going to be very different from a developer. They're looking for
technology, they're looking for things whether it's our FORMASHIELD, to take formaldehyde out of the air and trap it
in the formulation, or one coat hiding, these are the kinds of products that we have, and you're starting to really see that
through each of those three quarters of the year.
Operator
And next we'll move to Jonas Oxgaard with Bernstein.
<Q - Jonas Oxgaard>: Hi. Well, congratulations. One comment first. I would stay away from the troika. I would
suggest respectfully a triumvirate. Much better...
<A - Howard I. Ungerleider>: Thank you, Jonas. You may have saved the headline for me.
<Q - Jonas Oxgaard>: That said, I was curious on the Ag side, have you already started discussions with potential
partners, other owners? Or where are you on that timeline?
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: Yeah. So Jonas, really, literally, since the Monsanto Syngenta conversations began in May,
you could imagine that every player talks to everyone, and on a previous call, I think it was last quarter's earnings call, I
basically said, Dow will have a seat at the table. So yes, we're all talking to everyone and there's no imminent deal, I
just want to – we want you to obviously listen to the questions that were asked a couple times about, is this a good time,
is this the right value? All that is very key questions that we have to answer for our shareholders. But look, the answer
is everyone is talking to everyone.
Operator
And next we'll move on to Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
<Q - Vincent Stephen Andrews>: Thanks. And I unfortunately have another follow-on question on the Ag situation. It
sounds like you're considering either a sale or keeping it internally. And I'm just wondering, are you also considering
intermediate options, such as a spin-off or a sub-IPO tracking stock, those types of things? Particularly in the event if
the timing or the bid/ask spreads would suggest it might make sense to wait a little bit longer before complete
monetization?
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: Thank you, Vincent, for allowing my shortest answer. Yes.
<Q - Vincent Stephen Andrews>: Okay. And if I could just follow-up on the price declines in crop chemistry
vis-à-vis the inventory levels. How much of that do you think is just a function of weather-related demand issues? How
much of it is a function of, maybe in Brazil, the financing issues, and are you extending more credit to farmers or
bartering or those types of things? And how much of it is just sort of the dollar has made, maybe in the past made
purchasing power and pricing power higher, and now that tide's gone out a bit? How do you sort of shuffle the deck
between those buckets?
<A - Howard I. Ungerleider>: Yeah, I mean, I would say it's really – you literally answered the question, because it
really is a little bit currency, it's a little bit lower crop prices, which you look at a rented piece of land and the farmer is
not able to make money in Brazil on that basis, and there has been – you throw some weather in there, and you mix it
all together, and it makes for a really challenging environment after three years of pretty high yield with high
inventories.
Company Name: Dow Chemical
Company Ticker: DOW US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 15
Operator
And next we'll move on to Jim Sheehan with SunTrust.
<Q - Jim M. Sheehan>: Thank you. Regarding your flame retardant technology, you're gaining some new license
revenue there. I was wondering if you could just comment on where you see that technology going in the future? Do
you think you can grow it outside of Europe?
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: Go ahead, Howard.
<A - Howard I. Ungerleider>: I would say, yeah, the medium to long-term plan is, that's going to be global
technology. So I mean, we're seeing nice licensing income. I mean, it plays right into our technology material science
strength and boy, talk about EVA and ROC, it really has been a nice tailwind for building and construction, and we see
that continuing to expand over time.
Operator
And next, we'll move on to Aleksey Yefremov with Nomura Securities.
<Q - Aleksey Yefremov>: Thank you. What is the EBITDA associated with the MEGlobal stake being sold? And also,
could you comment on the magnitude of EQUATE stake sale as well? How does it compare in terms of proceeds on
EBITDA?
<A - Andrew N. Liveris>: We don't look at it on EBITDA basis, do we?
<A - Howard I. Ungerleider>: I would say this. Phase one, I mean, this is the beautiful thing, and I mean, why I
would differentiate in terms of JV consolidation/deconsolidation, it's hidden EBITDA. Remember when – because in
20/50 equity accounting you don't see the EBITDA of our joint ventures. You only see our percentage ownership of the
net income after-tax of the joint ventures in our EBITDA. So when you look at phase one that we announced today,
you're talking about probably in the range of $30 million to $50 million of lost Dow EBITDA in exchange for the $1.5
billion of proceeds. So it's a pretty nice EVA positive.
Operator
And that will be all the time we have for questions. I would like to turn the call back over to Mr. Broodo for any
additional or closing remarks.
Jack Broodo
Thank you, everyone, for your questions. Andrew, did you have some closing remarks?
Andrew N. Liveris
Yes, I do. We packed a lot into this call. We appreciate your questions. You've got our earnings release, you've also got
our pathway for the next two years to three years release as well. We have a company that's closing out one year early
from its goals that we announced in 2013. Our divestment targets were exceeded. We are in the position now of talking
about the next two years to three years with great clarity, and that clarity has been provided on the call. This is a
company that has delivered on its promises.
There's no gap between what we've said and what we've done, and we intend to continue that. And we're getting little to
no help from a consistent economy. Witness all the questions on volatility. Look at the proof points of our portfolio
performing in this economy, which we now have got quite a few quarters in a row. Those who worried about low oil,
Company Name: Dow Chemical
Company Ticker: DOW US
Date: 2015-10-22
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 15
look at our results. Those who worried about China going away, look at our results. The results of the company and the
consistency of performance enables us as a board and as a management team to continue to deliver that growth in terms
of earnings and cash flow. We are a strong cash flow machine, getting stronger back to you.
There is no big M&A. We will consolidate JVs where it makes sense. There is no need to think about this company
directing itself to anything in terms of big CapEx. We've got the big projects starting up. We have done this the last five
years with your perseverance, and we are now in the throes of starting up some of the biggest industrial chemical
complexes of all time, the one in Saudi Arabia and of course the big expansion in the U.S. Gulf Coast.
We are advantaged on the inputs and we're advantaged on the outputs. That's a structurally hedged portfolio that's very
unique to this enterprise. We commit to you consistent return to shareholders, consistent return of that cash over these
last five years, and last, but not least, I'm very proud of the team announcements we've made today. We have the team
to drive this company for the next five years to ten years in place. It's a team that has consistently grown, and delivered
for you, the shareholder, and I am very proud of that. Thank you.
Jack Broodo
Thank you, Andrew. As always, we appreciate your interest in The Dow Chemical Company. For your reference, a
copy of our prepared comments will be posted on Dow's website later today. This concludes our call for today. We
look forward to speaking with you again soon.
Operator
And that will conclude today's call. We thank you for your participation.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.