Company Name: BlackRock
Company Ticker: BLK US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 15
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Unverified Participant
• Gary S. Shedlin
• Laurence Douglas Fink
• Robert S. Kapito
Other Participants
• Robert Lee
• William Raymond Katz
• Kenneth B. Worthington
• Craig Siegenthaler
• Michael J. Cyprys
• Alexander V. Blostein
• Brian B. Bedell
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning. My name is Jennifer and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this time, I would like to
welcome everyone to the BlackRock, Incorporated Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Teleconference.
Our host for today's call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Laurence D. Fink; Chief Financial Officer,
Gary S. Shedlin; President, Robert S. Kapito; and General Counsel, Matthew Mallow. All lines have been placed on
mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions]
Thank you. Mr. Mallow, you may begin your conference.
Unverified Participant
Thank you. Good morning, everyone. I'm [ph] Chris Meade (00:52), the General Counsel of BlackRock. Before we
begin, let me remind you that during the course of this call, we may make a number of forward-looking statements. We
call your attention to the fact that BlackRock's actual results may, of course, differ from these statements.
As you know, BlackRock has filed reports with the SEC, which lists some of the factors that may cause the results of
BlackRock to differ materially from what we say today. BlackRock assumes no duty and does not undertake to update
any forward-looking statements.
So with that, let's begin.
Gary S. Shedlin
Company Name: BlackRock
Company Ticker: BLK US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 15
Thank you, [ph] Chris (01:24). Good morning, everyone. This is Gary Shedlin. It's my pleasure to be here to present
results for the third quarter of 2015. Before I turn it over to Larry to offer his comments, I'll review our quarterly
financial performance and business results. And as usual, I will be focusing primarily on our as adjusted results.
Against a challenging market backdrop, BlackRock's third quarter results demonstrate the stability of our diverse global
platform, highlighted by continued organic growth, stable operating margins, and systematic capital return. Third
quarter revenue of $2.9 billion was 2% higher than a year ago while operating income of $1.2 billion was up 1%.
Earnings per share of $5 were down 4% compared to a year ago, reflecting lower non-operating results and a higher tax
rate in the current quarter.
Non-operating results for the quarter reflected $6 million of net investment gains, largely driven by gains on private
equity and real estate investments, which offset market-driven losses on certain hedge funds and unhedged or partially
hedged multi-asset and fixed income seed investments.
Our as-adjusted tax rate for the third quarter was 29.3%, compared to a 26.2% a year ago, reflecting several favorable
nonrecurring items. We currently estimate that 30% remains a reasonable projected tax rate for the fourth quarter of
2015 and, based on what we know today, reflecting changes in our geographic business mix, estimate that 31% is a
reasonable projected tax rate for 2016.
BlackRock generated $35 billion of quarterly long-term net flows, representing an annualized organic growth rate of
3%. Flows were positive across investment styles and client types, reinforcing the value of our broad-based, diversified
business model. In a volatile market characterized by double-digit quarterly declines and a number of global equity
indices and significant FX movement, clients continue to look to BlackRock for strong risk management and long-term
investment solutions. In total, market depreciation and FX impact reduced the value of our assets under management by
approximately $265 billion during the quarter.
Over the last 12 months, BlackRock generated approximately $186 billion of long-term net new business, representing
a 4% long-term organic AUM growth rate and a 6% organic base fee growth rate as faster growth in our higher fee
channels contributed to a favorable overall change in our base fee mix.
Third quarter base fees were approximately flat year-over-year despite over $200 billion of negative FX impact to
market depreciation over the last 12 months. On a constant currency basis, we estimate that quarterly base fees grew
approximately at 3% year-over-year.
Sequentially, base fees were down 3% due to lower quarterly average AUM, a seasonal decline in securities lending
activity and the impact of divergent beta on our fee rate as emerging and commodities markets underperform developed
markets.
Going forward, our fourth quarter entry base fee level will be impacted as we enter the quarter with lower spot AUM
than our average AUM for the third quarter. Performance fees of $208 million were up 56% from a year ago and while
broad-based benefited from a single European hedge fund that delivered exceptional full year performance unlocks in
the third quarter.
BlackRock Solutions revenue of $167 million was up 1% year-over-year and 4% sequentially. Aladdin revenue which
represented 81% of BRS revenue in the quarter grew 11% year-over-year, driven by several sizeable client
implementations and has now more than doubled since 2009.
Strong connectivity between our BRS and institutional client teams is facilitating improved dialogue with our most
sophisticated clients as we continue to see increased demand for global investment platform consolidation and
multi-risk solutions.
Revenue in our Financial Markets Advisory business was down $11 million from a year ago to flat sequentially as
revenue in the third quarter of 2014 reflected the impact of several large ECB AQR advisory assignments.
Despite lower levels of opportunistic revenue post financial crisis, FMA is benefiting from a more stable revenue
profile driven by an increased number of mandates and more repeat engagement in the current market environment.
Company Name: BlackRock
Company Ticker: BLK US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 15
Total expense was $48 million year-over-year or 3%, driven primarily by compensation expense which increased $52
million from a year ago due to higher head count, higher levels of performance fees and increased deferred
compensation expense, partially offset by the impact of a stronger dollar.
G&A expense decreased $7 million from a year ago due to lower levels of marketing spend, offset by a lower benefit
from the FX impact re-measuring dollar exposures held overseas to their respective functional currencies. Recall that
our GAAP G&A expense a year ago reflected an additional $50 million charge related to the reduction of an
indemnification asset, which has been excluded from our as adjusted results. Sequentially, G&A expense increased $7
million, primarily due to higher levels of professional fees in the third quarter.
Our third quarter adjusted operating margin of 43.9% reflected expense awareness in the current market environment.
Looking forward, we continue to be mindful of our discretionary level of spend as markets evolve, but currently
anticipate a higher level of G&A spend during the fourth quarter, driven by seasonal factors and transaction-related
expense associated with recently consummated acquisitions.
As we stated in the past, we do not manage the business to a specific margin target. We do remain keenly focused on
delivering long-term value to our shareholders and will work to strike an appropriate balance between strategic
investment needs and prudent discretionary expense management.
We remain committed to using our cash flow to optimize shareholder value by first reinvesting in our business and then
returning excess cash to shareholders in a consistent systematic matter. In line with that commitment, we close the
acquisitions of I Cuadrada, the leading independently-managed infrastructure investment business in Mexico; and
FutureAdvisor, a leader in digital wealth management, earlier this month. We do not expect these transactions to have a
material impact on BlackRock's consolidated financial results.
During the third quarter, we also repurchased an additional $275 million worth of shares and view that as a good
planning rate for the remainder of the year. In a quarter where our clients face significant market volatility, BlackRock
generated $50 billion of total net flows including $35 billion of long-term net inflows reflecting the benefits of a
diverse investment and distribution platform and the commitment to alpha generation.
BlackRock's global retail franchise saw long-term net inflows of $7 billion, positive across all asset classes,
representing 5% annualized organic growth for the quarter and 10% organic growth over the last 12 months.
International retail net flows of $5 billion were paced by strong flows into international equities and unconstrained
fixed income, highlighting the global nature of our platform.
BlackRock's U.S. retail business generated long-term inflows of $2 billion, demonstrating resilience in what was a
challenging quarter for the U.S. mutual fund industry. BlackRock's flows were led by broad-based fixed income
activity where strong and consistent performance across the platform continues to differentiate us despite industry
outflows in a number of product categories, including unconstrained fixed income and high yields.
Global iShares generated $23 billion of net new flows, representing 9% annualized organic growth for the quarter and
12% organic growth over the last 12 months. iShares' value proposition, especially with respect to liquidity and
transparency was extremely evident in a market characterized by heightened volatility and year-to-date flows remained
in record territory.
iShares' fixed income inflows of $18 billion reflected ongoing adoption of ETFs as a means of rapidly accessing and
investing in fixed income markets. iShares' equity inflows of $5 billion were led by flows into developed market
exposures, including our Japan and Eurozone funds. We saw increased investor focus on risk-aware smart beta
products, with our minimum volatility fund raising more than $2 billion during the quarter and gaining the number one
ranking within the domestic product category.
Our institutional client business saw over $5 billion in quarterly long-term net inflows, driven by higher fee active
offerings as clients increasingly partner with BlackRock to generate alpha across active solutions and alternative
mandates.
Company Name: BlackRock
Company Ticker: BLK US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 15
Institutional active net inflows of $6 billion reflected over $4 billion across fixed income strategies and nearly $2
billion into core alternatives, and marked our sixth consecutive quarter of active institutional inflows.
Alternatives flows were broad based, including infrastructure, private equity, real estate, fund-to-fund, and alternative
solutions offerings. In addition, strong fundraising momentum continued with an additional $1 billion of illiquid
alternative commitments raised in the third quarter, bringing total unfunded commitments a source of future inflows to
approximately $11 billion.
Overall, our third quarter results reflect the benefits of the investments we've made to build a differentiated global
business model. Diversification across investment styles, distribution channels, products and geographies enables us to
serve clients irrespective of market environment or investment preference. Our goal remains to deliver consistent and
differentiated growth over time.
With that, I'll turn it over Larry.
Laurence Douglas Fink
Thanks, Gary. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining the call. Our third quarter results were driven by
clients' continued trust in BlackRock's ability to manage risk and deliver holistic investment solutions, as they look to
achieve long-term goals and navigate uncertainty in an increasingly volatile economic environment.
A slowing economy in China, persistent weakness in commodity prices, uncertainty around the Fed's decision on rates,
and continued fluctuation in currency valuations has contributed to significant declines in global markets.
Emerging market equities were down 19%. Natural resources stocks were down 23%. And European and U.S. indexes
fell 9% and 7%, respectively, in just the last quarter. Government actions continue to influence markets as central
bank's policies have caused imbalances in interest rates and currencies. Emerging market currencies have experienced
significant volatility falling nearly 9% in the third quarter before rallying over the past several days.
More than ever, our clients value the model we built at BlackRock. BlackRock's global, multi-product platform, our
market-leading risk management capabilities through Aladdin, and our focus on long-term solutions enable us to have a
more robust conversation with more clients as they address portfolio composition and asset allocation.
These conversations are not just focused on what products BlackRock can sell. They are focused on outcomes our
clients are looking for and how we could bring together capabilities across our global platform to help our clients
achieve their goals. This approach has resulted in a stronger, longer-lasting relationships with our clients than ever
before, which truly contributed to more than the $50 billion of net inflows this quarter. Clients not only turn to
BlackRock to manage assets, but to help them to understand the longer-term impact on developments in the financial
landscape.
The BlackRock Investment Institute continues to lead that discussion and hosted several client calls in the third quarter
to address market volatility with BII's most widely attended call, reaching more than 4,000 client participants.
This heightened level of client engagement is translating into consistent growth, and BlackRock saw $35 billion of
long-term net flows in the quarter, positive across, as Gary suggested, in investment styles and client types.
The fact that we are seeing such diverse inflows in a volatile market speaks to the power of our platform that we built
over time at BlackRock and the differentiated experience we provide to our clients. We continue to grow our global
distribution footprint and a product set to serve a diverse set of clients with a holistic range of outcome-oriented
solutions, as clients are looking for income and uncorrelated returns in the current investment environment.
In the U.S., we anticipate client demand for income-focused products and since they were launched, our strategic
income opportunity and multi-asset income funds have garnered more flows through the third quarter than any fund in
these categories with more than $35 billion of total inflows.
Company Name: BlackRock
Company Ticker: BLK US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 15
Building upon the strength of these funds in the U.S., our global versions of BlackRock's unconstrained fixed income
and multi-asset income funds are gaining momentum with clients internationally. Year-to-date, FIGO, our global
unconstrained offering saw net inflows of $3.8 billion and our global multi-asset income fund saw net inflows of more
than $1.4 billion.
On the institutional side, client demand for active fixed income and alternative strategies continues to drive positive
organic base fee growth. For example, while official institution clients have generally been environmentally driven net
sellers and low fee index equity exposures, we have seen enhanced demand from the same clients for our active and
alternative products and solutions, which have driven positive overall revenue growth among these clients this year,
and this is some focus that we've talked about over a year, having clients navigate from index into active and back and
forth. And the biggest differentiating feature of BlackRock today versus a few years ago, we have both active and
passive products.
BlackRock recognizes that even the most comprehensive and global set of solutions will be insufficient without strong
investment performance. As a global firm, our objective is to outperform consistently while our entire invest –
throughout our entire investment platform.
We remain focused on embracing a team-oriented approach, leveraging our connectivity, our knowledge-sharing
forums and translating all these information into insights from technology and big data to drive top-tier performance
across all asset categories and investment strategies.
We've seen consistency in areas where we were strong and improvement in areas where we've been reinvesting in
talent. In our Scientific Active Equity business, 97% of the AUM performed above benchmark or peer medium for the
three-year period. And in our active taxable Fixed Income business, 90% of assets performed above benchmark or peer
medium for three-year period.
Over the last few years, we've invested in our Fundamental Equity business in hiring new talent in technology and in
unifying this global equity platform to be more effective to tap the resources entirely throughout BlackRock. We're
seeing the benefit of this investment and in our Fundamental Active Equity business, 80% and 58% of our AUM is now
above benchmark or peer medium for the one-year and three-year, respectively.
And importantly, our global platform continues to deliver results. BlackRock's European and BlackRock's Asian
fundamental equities platform have 99% and 91% of their assets, respectively, above benchmarks or peer medium for
the three-year period.
Investors continue to turn to iShares amidst the heightened volatility to gain market exposures and enhanced portfolio
construction and iShares saw, as Gary discussed, $23 billion in net total inflows. iShares captured the number one
market share of the net new business globally in the U.S. and in Europe and in the third quarter year-to-date. iShares
flows were driven by fixed income as investors utilize fixed income ETFs as an effective tool for diversification and
liquidity. Equity flows were driven by $5 billion into European-listed iShares and we saw positive inflows in Canada
and Asia-Pacific as well.
Extreme market volatility resulted in a disjointed market open on August 24. Lack of pricing clarity, widespread delay
in stock openings and an unprecedented number of trading halts impacted a large number of both U.S.-listed single
name stocks and equity ETFs.
We have spoken with many different market participants and based on our own experience and these conversations, we
have made several recommendations with respect to U.S. equity market structure in a ViewPoint article titled, U.S.
Equity Market Structure: Lessons from August 24, which we published on the website last week. Demand for iShares
has remained strong and net iShares flows following August 24 has been robust at nearly $25 billion through yesterday.
Despite near-term market fluctuations, we continue to focus on the long run by investing in areas that we believe will
result in a more complete offering for our clients and delivering value for our shareholders. Over the last two years, our
institutional clients rebalancing survey indicated that institutes plan to increase allocations to real assets. We continue
to expand our real asset offerings, including BlackRock's infrastructure platform would provide clients with current
Company Name: BlackRock
Company Ticker: BLK US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 15
income, diversification, income protection, and potential for capital appreciation while helping to drive economic
growth and job creation.
As Gary mentioned earlier this month, we closed on the acquisition of I Cuadrada, Mexico's leading infrastructure
investment firm, and BlackRock now manages nearly $7 billion in infrastructure investments on behalf of clients
worldwide.
Technology is another area where we've built on our existing strength through recent investments to enhance the way
we serve our clients. We continue to enhance our Aladdin platform by building out our multi-asset capabilities, driving
11% revenue growth year-over-year and we're seeing growing demand as investors become more focused on risk
management in the evolving financial and regulatory landscape.
Earlier this month, we completed the acquisition of FutureAdvisor, a leading digital wealth management platform. As
consumers increasingly engage with technology to invest, BlackRock and FutureAdvisor are positioned to empower
our distribution partners to better serve their clients by combining FutureAdvisor's high-quality technology-enabled
advice with BlackRock's multi-asset investment capabilities, our proprietary technology and most importantly, our risk
analytics.
We've built and continued to invest in our platform and our people so that we can have a deeper dialogue with our
clients and deliver consistent results for our shareholders, especially through times of heightened uncertainty.
On a very personal note, as many of you know, Charlie Hallac, who was named our Co-President last year, passed
away in September following a lengthy battle against cancer. Charlie is missed by many of his friends across
BlackRock. Our greatest tribute to him will be to carry forward his lifework by continuing to deliver excellence to our
clients, to constantly innovate, and more importantly, to look relentlessly for ways to evolve as Charlie always did.
Finally, I want to thank our employees for the continued focus and dedication in creating better financial futures for our
clients.
So, let's now open it up for questions.
Q&A
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Robert Lee with KBW.
<Q - Robert Lee>: Thanks. Good morning, guys.
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: Hey, Robert. How are you?
<Q - Robert Lee>: Great. Thanks. Just a maybe question starting with the iShares business and clearly flows there
have been strong across a variety of products. One of the things that feels like you're seeing or starting to see is like a
surge of firms kind of crowding into I guess what I'll call the smart-beta space. I mean, just curious if you're seeing any
impact from this in terms of price competition or kind of your thoughts about how that may or may not evolve,
particularly as it relates to price competition.
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: Let me allow Rob Kapito to answer that.
<A - Robert S. Kapito>: So, most recently, we haven't seen the price pressure that we have [ph] taken (24:02) in the
past that has settled down. [ph] Certainly, I need commerce (24:09) at the market and you look to use price as one of
the ways to enter the market, but I haven't seen that really in the last quarter.
Going forward, I think smart beta is one of the areas that's going to continue to be a successful product and a necessary
product. We currently have about $125 billion in client assets across a variety of factor-based products and smart beta
products.
Company Name: BlackRock
Company Ticker: BLK US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 15
We actually recently hired Dr. Andrew Ang and he is going to lead our Factor-Based Strategies Group so that we can
lead in the factor-based investing on portfolio construction. And we're going to combine our skill set and his systematic
investment skill set along with Aladdin to focus on the factor and – in the smart beta area. So, I think you are astute in
seeing that's something that clients are going to look for. We already have a number of these, one is our minimum
volatility fund. We raised about $2 billion. And we are the leader in U.S. ETFs in the smart beta area.
But just to step back on the price, please keep in mind that price is only one reason of why people buy ETFs. They're
looking for precision or what you are discussing, a new approach in smart beta or backdoor investing. They're certainly
looking for liquidity, which means you have to have a fund that has some sort of size depending upon the type of
investor. They could be a core investor, which we call a buy-and-hold, or they're looking to be more active. So price is
important, but it's only one aspect and I just haven't seen the price pressure that we've seen a year ago and up to the first
half of this year.
<Q - Robert Lee>: All right, great. And maybe as a follow-up, just looking at the multi-asset class products, I mean
that actually had a little bit of outflow. It wasn't too much, but a little bit. But I mean, that's a category that for years
now has been pretty consistent solid inflows quarter-after-quarter. So I'm just curious, was there anything unusual that
quarter that may have driven that or anything we should be looking at in that product line – product set?
<A - Robert S. Kapito>: I don't think there's anything unusual. The multi-asset product segment is a segment that
clients have felt very comfortable on the long-term performance of that and they sometimes use those products as a
cash alternative. And so, when there are movements in and out of the markets risk-on/risk-off, they use that typical
product.
And in the last quarter, we've seen a lot of risk-off trades and that product has been used for that, but there's nothing out
of the ordinary. We're seeing flows now in that area. The performance is good. So, it's really just an aberration over the
quarter.
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: And I would say one other thing, Robert, and specifically in the third quarter, we had
one client move from multi-asset into an alpha product. So, as Rob said, people are utilizing that, but one client actually
had greater conviction and went into a totally oriented market exposure alpha product.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: Hi, Bill.
<Q - William Raymond Katz>: Yeah. Good morning, everyone. Thank you very much for taking my questions.
Obviously very good flow story for the quarter. Maybe I'd pick on one of the areas that was a bit weak just so to get
your perspective on what might be going on underneath that. Could you talk a little bit about Asia-Pac? Is that just sort
of risk-on and risk-off for the market? And what do you think might reverse some of that risk attrition?
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: Well, there are some very large, without getting into client details or any client, there
are some very large movements from some clients that are actively moving out of government securities into more
risk-oriented securities. That's pretty well advertised about me going into the specifics of that.
We have seen some clients, because of cash needs, have been selling products. So I think Asia-Pac has been dominated
more by three or four large institutions moving around. I think I'm talking about the whole ecosystem of the markets.
And then what we saw is we saw more consistent flows in Asia-Pac iShares. We are seeing actually more utilization of
dollar assets today related to our institutional clients. And I would say in some parts of Asia, as Rob suggested in the
fourth quarter, there's more and more movement towards multi-asset.
So, I don't see any major change in the specifics of BlackRock in the third quarter. We did have index outflows in
APAC and – however, as I suggested in my formal speech, some of these clients moved into more active products and
Company Name: BlackRock
Company Ticker: BLK US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 15
so we had actually a positive overall revenue growth in that region. So, I would say nothing that was extraordinary; just
some large actions. And I think you're going to see a consistent growth of Asia-Pac overall as some of the major clients
are looking to invest in more global products away from their host products – or host country products, so we feel good
about Asia Pacific and Australia right now.
<Q - William Raymond Katz>: That's helpful. And then just a follow-up and this might be a little too early, but I'm
sort of curious, there's been some recent rule changes promulgated by the SEC around mutual fund liquidity. Can you
think of it – talk about how you sort of see that playing out? Obviously, nothing is in written form quite yet in terms of
where the industry has to go, but might some of the pros and cons of that regulatory change might be for the business?
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: So, obviously, this is a proposed – it's up for comment to the proposed liquidity risk
management rule and also, they're focusing on stress testing funds.
I think it's very important that we have better disclosure on liquidity for all funds. We have better disclosures on
stressing funds. There's certainly more and more dialogue about one directional trades worldwide from the regulators.
And so, I actually believe the SEC is leading this effort in trying to come up with the appropriate analysis to help guide
investors understand the embedded issues, risk or opportunities in mutual funds. So, we look at this as a net positive
that – and we're always in favor of better disclosure.
The one cautionary thing we would say to any regulator, let's not make retail products less competitive than
institutional products. So, for instance, if they suggested that a mutual fund product should have a higher cash buffer,
and that would probably mean most institutional clients would move to a separate account, we may not achieve what
we're trying to achieve.
So, we are in favor of better disclosures. I think through better disclosures, you're going to have better processes,
possibly stress testing a fund depending on the methodologies that may work, too. So, we have an open mind and I
don't know, Bill, exactly where it's going, but we want to play a constructive role globally on these issues.
If I would say, as we talked about over the last few years, regulators worldwide have gone from analysis of firms
related to city designation to activities, so – and we were a big supporter of that as a firm. And these are the type of
activities that most certainly the regulators are going to be focusing on. And as I said, we have constructive, positive
dialogue with the regulators throughout the world on this, so we'll wait and see.
<Q - William Raymond Katz>: Okay. Thanks for taking my questions.
Operator
Your next question is from Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: Hi, Ken.
<Q - Kenneth B. Worthington>: Hi. Good morning. First on iShares, you've highlighted about a year ago the
opportunities for ETFs in Europe given changing regulations. Today, you've highlighted European iShares as one of the
reasons that equity iShares sales were so strong. So, I guess are things kind of coming together with regulation in
European ETFs and is this really kind of the beginning of the beginning for European ETFs?
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: I'm going let Rob answer it. Let me just start up in saying, and then Rob will –
because he has much more texture on it. Regulation has evolved in Europe. Regulation in terms of the inability to pass
on fees have led to obviously more opportunities with ETFs and we are beginning to see that. I would also say specific
about European ETFs and the equities; we are seeing more interested investors in equity exposures in Europe. So I
think that's a trend as a market exposure trend, but I think distribution trends are going to lead to much greater reliance
by distribution platform utilizing ETFs.
We actually have – also, you saw, Ken, that we had positive inflows in our mutual fund platform and we had consistent
mutual fund flows in our EMEA operations. So, I think it's the third point that I would make and let Rob go into the
Company Name: BlackRock
Company Ticker: BLK US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 15
specifics. I think our positioning in Europe is just getting stronger in both mutual funds and ETFs. Okay.
<A - Robert S. Kapito>: So, I would just say there's two movements. One in Europe certainly with the RDR rules.
People are moving more towards advice and asset allocation. And when you look at that, the best product to achieve
that is iShares or ETFs. And so, we're seeing continued demand because of those rules being so important. But we're
also seeing the same thing in the U.S. where clients are using iShares toward asset allocation purposes and that's just
gone very well for ETFs going forward.
And the last trend is the products are trending to be more global products rather than just U.S. and just European. The
global products are also seeing some demand. So, some of it's from changes in regulation, but a lot of it is due to
education and people having knowledge that iShares can actually play a big role in achieving the results that people
want in their portfolios.
<Q - Kenneth B. Worthington>: Great. Thank you. And then, sovereign wealth funds have been in the media again.
Maybe discuss how diversified BlackRock's exposure is between commodity-related sovereign wealth funds and
maybe non-commodity-related funds. And is exposure of BlackRock weighted to any particular size or asset class? I
was thinking active versus passive and/or fixed income versus equity. Thanks.
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: Ken, that's a great question and is a question I'm not going to answer because I don't
talk about my clients. It's just something – we have never made any reference to any specific sovereign wealth fund or
anything, so I'm going to leave it at that.
<Q - Kenneth B. Worthington>: Okay, worth a try. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: Hi, Craig. How are you?
<Q - Craig Siegenthaler>: Good morning. So maybe firstly just head on the fixed income here. Very good results
across all through your fixed income businesses. And it looks like time constraint was the large driver for retail, but are
there any underlying themes that really surprised you in fixed income in this quarter?
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: Well, I think the narrative about high rates and what does it mean for fixed income
flows is just an entirely incorrect viewpoint, and this is one of the key elements of what I think is differentiating
BlackRock. We're focusing on helping clients meet the needs of their liabilities. Many clients have liabilities that are
very long-dated. Many clients have underinvested and so they actually have a gap between the length of the duration of
their liabilities versus the duration of their bonds.
As interest rates rise – if they rise, I think they will rise one day – we are actually going to see an accelerated movement
towards clients buying longer duration assets and that's – I mean, I'm not talking about trading strategies but clients that
are pension fund-oriented or long-dated insurance type of products, they're going to use this as an opportunity to buy
different long-dated assets.
Clients who were more interested in any trade, obviously they're going to get on a long duration and move into the low
duration or something like our Strategic Income Opportunity Fund where they're not going to be constrained to a
duration. It'll be an unconstrained product.
So, what the third quarter saw, we saw lots of movement, we saw some clients were adding duration, we saw some
clients were reducing duration, we saw some clients taking advantage and this is one thing that I haven't seen in the
narrative. We have clients who were taking advantage of the rising high yield market because high yield
underperformed in the third quarter, and we saw clients are moving back into high yield because the coupon on a
risk-adjusted basis in the [indiscernible] (39:56) category are achieving their needs that match their liabilities.
Company Name: BlackRock
Company Ticker: BLK US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 15
So, this is an important component of why I believe we have differentiated ourselves because we are working with our
clients, trying to keep the narrative on what is their outcome that they're seeking. It's not about trading in and out; it is
about how can they best achieve and composition of assets to meet their liabilities. And by continuing to drive home
this concept of long-termism and outcomes instead of the noise at the moment has allowed us to have deeper dialogue,
and I think the flows in fixed income have shown the results of having deeper dialogues and focus on outcomes.
<Q - Craig Siegenthaler>: Got it. And then I just have a follow-up here on multi-asset. Just given the softer results in
3Q in this one product set, could you give us an update on the kind of the three main funds here: Global Al, LifePath
and also Multi-Asset Income?
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: Gary?
<A - Gary S. Shedlin>: Absolutely, Craig. So, I think that there's been, as Rob talked about and I think Larry also
further on, we've seen some movements in the Multi-Asset category. And keep in mind I think also as just one other
additional point is that when we talk about multi-asset that you're looking at in the context of our reporting, we're really
talking about the bundled outcome products that I think you're talking about. There's lots of other multi-asset discussion
and solutions that are going on around the firm that frankly fit into lots of other categories.
But as you talk about bundled products like LifePath and Global Al, which obviously two of our flagship products, they
did see flattish flows in the quarter. And I think while we would say that MAI's flows were not as strong as prior
quarters, it still was positive to the tune of $500 million and it still remains a top-selling – or the top-selling multi-asset
income fund since its launch about three years ago.
Larry talked a lot about SIOs and other similar products, which is a fixed income product and obviously that – and in
addition to that with LDI and some other things, we've seen very positive flows there. But there's no question that as we
saw some slowing flows, whether it was MAI, DDG, or even LifePath, we did see some slowing in the flows, I think
it's early for us to figure out whether in particular around target date that that was an industry phenomena or not.
Obviously, we did see unprecedented volatility.
I think that if we actually look across a lot of those products with respect to the different dates, we definitely did see
more flows in so-called near-term maturity dates as opposed to the long-term, which may suggest that as people who
are looking to basically approach retirement more quickly, they saw volatility and we're deciding to eliminate some of
the equity exposure in the near term. But I think we'll be watching that very closely and see to what extent those change
direction in the next few quarters.
<Q - Craig Siegenthaler>: Thanks, Gary.
Operator
Your next question comes from Michael Cyprys with Morgan Stanley.
<Q - Michael J. Cyprys>: Hey. Good morning. Thanks for taking the question.
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: Well, how are you, Mike?
<Q - Michael J. Cyprys>: Good, good. Could you talk a little bit about the opportunity for ETFs being used as an
alternative to futures contracts and then also ETFs being used as a form of collateral? How do you see those
opportunities that's progressing today? And how much would you say you're focused on that capacity right now? And
then just maybe if you could touch upon some of the longer-term opportunities out there. Thanks.
<A - Robert S. Kapito>: So, this is the beauty of ETFs that we constantly have been finding new uses for the product.
So, as futures became more expensive to use than ETFs, it opened up a whole new world that we didn't even think
about because of the collateral cost behind futures contracts.
Company Name: BlackRock
Company Ticker: BLK US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 15
So, when we are going into the capital market and we are meeting lots of fixed income and equity clients and having
these discussions and talking to them about uses, most of the time, we walk away with some other ideas that we didn't
think about that they have needs for. So, as you know now, ETFs are being used as a surrogate for futures across many
institutional accounts, so we think that's going to continue and how big can that be. Just think about the size of the
futures market. And certainly, regulation is going to play a big role in that as well.
So, as capital costs are going up for a lot of institutions, ETFs are starting to play a bigger role. So, that's sort of where
we're at and I would tell you, in the fixed income side, fixed income really lagged the equity market when it came to
new uses. We have added a bunch of people in our Capital Markets Group for iShares to go out and to really work with
different institutions in both education and also about learning what some of the needs are so that we can innovate those
products for them.
<Q - Michael J. Cyprys>: Okay. Thanks. And then just shifting to the institutional index side, could you talk about
some of the opportunities that they are converting some of the lower fee institutional index mandates to higher margin
or higher fee-oriented mandates? So basically increasing the share of wallet or moving upstream and shifting to share
of wallet. How big of an opportunity is that? And is there any low-hanging fruit left? Any color around that would be
helpful.
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: I think the opportunity remains to be quite large. As we saw in our investment survey,
the clients are looking to add more alternatives and this is worldwide across the globe. This is one of the big reasons
why we are building out our infrastructure platform, continue to build out our hedge fund platform, our real estate
platform.
So, as I said earlier, we are in deeper conversation with clients than we've ever been before. Much of it has to do with
the quality of our relationships, our focus on risk management and our ability to deliver solutions. I mean, that sounds
like a lot of talk but it's now that – that positioning has now transformed us to have those dialogues five years ago when
we were – in many relationships where we strictly had a beta relationship, we were not – we did not have the ability to
provide the products or have the dialogue with many more clients.
I believe today, we have more dialogue, we have deeper dialogues with clients worldwide that is going to allow us, if
the opportunity prevails when a client is looking to reduce beta exposures to go into other forms of alpha exposures, to
go into other forms of alpha exposures, whether just active equity management, active fixed income or alternatives, we
have those dialogues.
And once again, I do believe the third quarter is starting to show that evidence that we're able to navigate. Rob and I
spend a great deal of time on the road. We have – we're constantly reminded that if we can provide this holistic solution
to our clients, and we can provide a deeper analysis of what the needs of our clients.
We have seen consistently that we're able to have a broader product range solution for our clients. And as we continue
to drive that and build these relationships, I think you're going to see that navigation in our flows and our business.
If you look specifically in the third quarter, we had – we grew many different types of alternatives. We had $2 billion in
positive flows. We had another $1 billion in forward commitments. And the most positive thing I could tell you related
to those flows, those flows principally came in six different products, which is another statement of the growing
product breadth that we are developing for our clients.
<Q - Michael J. Cyprys>: Great. Thanks.
Operator
Your next question comes from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: Hi, Alex. How are you?
Company Name: BlackRock
Company Ticker: BLK US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 15
<Q - Alexander V. Blostein>: Great. Hi, Larry. Good morning. So, speaking with the regulatory line of questions, I
guess, we've gone through a bunch of comments from the industry on the DoL proposal. Looks like we're getting a
little bit closer to some sort of a final ruling and looks like a lot of this – a lot of things will kind of come through as
they were written. So, maybe hoping to get your perspective on what risk and opportunities does that create for
BlackRock, I guess [indiscernible] (50:04) about the rules set today.
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: I don't know. I don't know how the rules are going to be coming out. On the surface, it
will change the relationships with the distribution partners with their clients. We have to adapt our business with our
distribution partners on that business.
I think one thing is very clear on how this all plays out, it means greater emphasis in beta products and ETFs. But until
we see how this has rolled out and we've had comments on it that are very public about our opinions related to the DoL
fiduciary rule, I would also say that if investors build more confidence, because of however the DoL rule plays out that
if investors feel more confident that they can invest fairly securely, we're all benefited by that.
Now, I'm not sure how that will play out, but we've always believed if we could have a marketplace where our clients
feel more secure that they have an opportunity to earn a fair return over a long cycle, everyone will be benefited by that
– the clients, obviously, our distribution partners, and the investment management team.
So, once again, we try to take a constructive approach to the SEC, mindful that some of the SEC fiduciary rules would
change the relationships with our distribution partners. And we try to work with the regulators in terms of finding a
sensible solution that meets the challenges of our distribution partners, the asset manager, but importantly giving the
end client the trust that they need in terms of investing for the future.
<Q - Alexander V. Blostein>: Okay. Thanks for that. And then, on the product side of things, was hoping to get a little
bit more color on the active equity business. Nice to see flows turning positive here. I guess it's one of the better
quarters we've seen in a little while. So, any granularity in terms of where the strength has been coming from, whether
it's scientific. I think you guys highlighted that in the press release, or the fundamental equities, where we're starting to
see some turnaround.
<A - Robert S. Kapito>: So, where we're starting to see the biggest turnaround is from the fundamental active equity
business. We spent a lot of time and money, as you know, in trying to rebuild our effort there and the teams. And I feel
very good about this. Certainly, in Europe, our team there has been together longer. Their record across the board is
now very strong. And now, we're starting to see the same efforts in the U.S. through our capital appreciation fund, our
equity dividend fund. So, the performance is actually really good.
Now, on top of that, the Scientific Active Equity group, the more quantitatively driven and model-driven portfolios, the
three-year record, which is what a lot of the consultants look at, the 98% of the assets are above the benchmark or peer
median. We had work to do domestically. And, today, the fundamental active equity business, 81% of the assets are
above the benchmark for the one-year period.
So, as time goes on, the performance is really, really much better. So, when you see better performance, it translates
directly into flows, and we're starting to see those flows. We're having a much better dialogue with our consultants who
are now putting us in the mix for proposals.
And we're also internally very focused on building out the equity effort. And you're going to hear a lot more from us
from our marketing teams and the rest of the teams across the firm, because we are going to be much bigger in the
active equity space, and we're very happy to have the performance to back that up.
So, very important part and we're still building, we're still adding people. But we're getting results and at the same time,
good positive feedback from our clients now.
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: Let me just add one more thing. As I said in my prepared remarks, the strength of our
performance, 90th percentile for Asian equities and European equities. We are seeing flows into those categories, and
we continue to be differentiated. And I truly believe, as the market settles down, we believe the category where many
investors will be seeking market exposures and that's going to be in Asian equities. And with our performance, I would
Company Name: BlackRock
Company Ticker: BLK US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 15
think over the next few years, we're going to see accelerated flows there.
<A - Robert S. Kapito>: And just to drill down, as you've asked, just a couple notes for you, our equity dividend
product is now in the 37th percentile. Our basic value has come from the 51st percentile to the 20th percentile and our
large cap core has risen from 76th percentile to the 29th percentile. Those are big moves and I believe those are
sustainable and just the beginning of what we can do when we combine the knowledge and the communication across
the platform.
<Q - Alexander V. Blostein>: Got it. Thanks for all the color there. Appreciate it.
Operator
Your next question comes from Brian Bedell with Deutsche Bank.
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: Hey, Brian.
<Q - Brian B. Bedell>: Good morning, folks. Hi. Good morning. Just go back on the SEC liquidity rule proposals.
Yeah, I guess, first of all, I know it's very early, but as they're proposed, do you think it's generally workable for
investments in less liquid areas, in high yields and small cap emerging markets?
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: Absolutely.
<Q - Brian B. Bedell>: And...
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: I'm sorry.
<Q - Brian B. Bedell>: I'm sorry?
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: I'm sorry. Go on, I guess.
<Q - Brian B. Bedell>: And then on the counter side of that, how do you think Aladdin can play a role in this for fund
companies, if at all?
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: So, different products have different liquidity sets. This is one of the reasons why I
think a liquidity disclosure is a good thing. You mentioned high yield. High yield has somewhat less liquidity than an
investment-grade product. A treasury fund has more liquidity than an investment-grade corporate product. You are paid
a higher income for those types of returns and I do believe having a measurement – hopefully, it's a dynamic
measurement – a dynamic measurement will allow investors and we're talking mostly retail investors having a better
understanding.
And so, if we can come up with the metrics that is dynamic, that is informative about the liquidity of any one product
and differentiating that liquidity amongst different funds, because some funds, some different – some mutual funds
have systematically always, even in the asset categories of, let's say, high yield, haven't consistently invested in the
lower-grade high yield with less liquidity and some mutual funds have invested in the higher-grade high yield that had
more liquidity.
And so some form of dynamic measurement is probably good. I don't – I actually believe, once again, as investors are
becoming more informed and they better understand the risks and the returns, I actually believe it will be to greater
investments in different asset categories. This is something we should all embrace.
So, I don't – as I said, I look at this as a positive. It's a constructive way of analyzing. We just need to make sure that we
don't cause so much problems at all. Institutions running out of mutual funds and go to separate accounts, and we may
not be achieving everything that is necessary.
But, okay, we want smart investors. Smart investors are better for the entire asset management industry. We should not
run away from markets that are opaque. We should always be trying to find ways of making more transparency in
terms of risks.
Company Name: BlackRock
Company Ticker: BLK US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 15
In terms of Aladdin, greater risk analytics, whether it's liquidity analytics or stress test analytics, is a very large positive
for the future direction and needs of clients utilizing Aladdin. As I said in my prepared remarks, Aladdin is growing
11% a year. We are in deep dialogue with many clients right now, and I feel very good about how Aladdin is the risk
management platform of choice by so many investors worldwide.
<Q - Brian B. Bedell>: Okay, great. Thanks. And then just a follow up on the retail distribution strategy, especially as
it relates to ETFs, can you talk about the role of FutureAdvisor as you've – I guess the stages of planning that out and
integrating with your RIA efforts and then – and also your plans for sales force build to better penetrate the RIA
segment?
<A - Laurence Douglas Fink>: So, we are very excited about what FutureAdvisor will bring for us. We believe
having better technology to interface with our distribution partners will give us a real opportunity. It is too early for me
to really go into detail how we are navigating it. But in the early weeks, we've had a refreshingly large amount of
interest with our distribution partners and utilization of this technology.
Once again, through this technology, if we could increase the knowledge base of products, increase the knowledge base
of information through this technology, we will have deeper and more robust conversations.
If we can't, our hope is to and our intention is to link our FutureAdvisor technology with our Aladdin technology to
help our distribution partners to have, well, better risk analytics and both – and better client interface information, so
they could be providing better guidance to their clients.
This is a long-term investment for us. We're more excited about the investment today than we were as we thought about
making the investment. And as we said earlier, we are thrilled with the response by our distribution partners to have
more engagement utilizing this technology.
So, it's still early to really get into any details but our management team of FutureAdvisors are running around the
country right now, having many dialogues and conversations alongside our BlackRock Solution team. But it is very
important to note, because we never really talked about it, putting Aladdin – putting FutureAdvisor into our BlackRock
Solution platform really gives us this ability to really create a third-party platform to provide independent information
for our clients that's very similar to what BlackRock, Aladdin does for our clients, independent risk management.
So, we look at this as a great stepping stone for a deeper connection with our RIAs and all our distribution platforms.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the allotted time for questions. Mr. Fink, do you have any closing remarks?
Laurence Douglas Fink
Once again, I thank all of you for joining this morning and your interest in BlackRock. Our third quarter results, once
again, highlighted the investments we made to enhance a differentiated platform, a more diverse platform, a global
platform, a risk management platform. We continue to differentiate ourself by taking a consistent long-term view while
staying ahead and navigating the near-term developments in the financial markets. I think we help our clients by having
this diverse, multi-product platform to help them navigate. And I think the third quarter results speak loudly with those
results.
Have a good quarter and we'll talk to you in the New Year.
Operator
This concludes today's teleconference. You may now disconnect.
Company Name: BlackRock
Company Ticker: BLK US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 15
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.