Company Name: Wells Fargo
Company Ticker: WFC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 15
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• James H. Rowe
• John G. Stumpf
• John R. Shrewsberry
Other Participants
• Joseph Morford
• Marty Lacey Mosby
• Mike L. Mayo
• Erika P. Najarian
• Eric Wasserstrom
• Scott Siefers
• David Bruce Hilder
• Nancy Avans Bush
• John Pancari
• Paul J. Miller
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning. My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome
everyone to the Wells Fargo Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent
any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin your
conference.
James H. Rowe
Thank you, Regina, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today where our Chairman and CEO,
John Stumpf; and our CFO, John Shrewsberry, will discuss third quarter results and answer your questions. This call is
being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our third quarter earnings release and quarterly supplements are
available on our website at wellsfargo.com. I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements
during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially
from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release
and quarterly supplement. Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including a reconciliation
of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release and in the quarterly
supplement available on our website.
I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.
Company Name: Wells Fargo
Company Ticker: WFC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 15
John G. Stumpf
Thank you, Jim, and thank you, good morning and thanks for joining us today. We earned $5.8 billion in the third
quarter as our diversified business model generated growth in revenue, loans, deposits and net income compared with a
year ago. We remain focused on meeting the financial needs of our customers and are investing in businesses so we
may continue to meet the evolving needs of our customers in the future. The strength of our franchise also positioned
us well for the acquisitions we have recently announced.
We are excited that the transactions with GE Capital will enable us to deepen relationships and increase our presence in
commercial businesses that serve the real economy. General Electric, like Wells Fargo, is one of America's great
companies and the businesses we are acquiring are industry leaders with proven business models and exceptionally
talented and experienced people. We are excited to have them join the Wells Fargo team. John Shrewsberry will
provide more details on the recent GE Capital announcements at the end of the call.
Let me now highlight our results this quarter compared with a year ago. We earned $1.05 in earnings per share, up 3%
from a year ago. We generated $21.9 billion of revenue up 3% with growth in both net interest income and noninterest
income. We grew pre-tax pre-provision profit by 6%. We continued to have broad-based loan growth with total loans
reaching a record $903.2 billion. This is a bit larger than the size of our loan portfolio at the time of the Wachovia
merger at the end of 2008. However, the quality of our current portfolio is significantly better than at the time of the
merger. Our core loan portfolio increased by $73.4 billion or 9% from a year ago reflecting both strong organic growth
and the benefit of the acquisitions we've completed over the past year.
Our deposit franchise once again generated strong customer and balance growth with total deposits reaching a record
$1.2 trillion, up $71.6 billion (sic) [$71.8 billion] or 6% from a year ago and we grew the number of primary consumer
checking customers by 5.8%. Our financial performance resulted in strong capital generation and returning capital to
our shareholders remains a priority. Our dividend payout ratio is 35% and we repurchased 52 million shares of
common stock in the third quarter.
Turning to the economic environment, the global economy showed some signs of weakness in the third quarter
primarily in China and other emerging markets. This weakness impacted the financial markets and the rising value of
the U.S. dollar has caused the trade deficit to widen. As you know, Wells Fargo is a U.S.-centric company and the U.S.
economy, while not immune to these developments, has proven quite resilient. The low energy prices that are
negatively impacting certain aspects of the economy have provided a welcome boost to consumers with many now
beginning to redirect their savings into purchasing goods and services.
As an example, new auto sales were at their highest levels in a decade. Housing continued to rebound with home sales
at their highest levels since 2009 and a limited supply of homes, of new homes, are driving new home construction.
And while the latest jobs report was disappointing relative to expectations, the labor market continued to show steady
gains with September posting the 60th consecutive month of rising employment, something never before accomplished,
and the unemployment rate is at a level that many consider to be the long-term norm.
As the U.S. and the world economies evolve, Wells Fargo remains focused on the building blocks of our growth:
increasing the number of households we serve, adding commercial relationships, deepening consumer and commercial
relationships and growing loans and deposits. This focus will benefit our long-term growth while we continue to meet
our customers' financial needs and navigate the challenges of today's economy.
John Shrewsberry, our CFO, will now provide more details on our third quarter results. John?
John R. Shrewsberry
Thank you, John, and good morning, everyone. My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly
supplement starting on page 2. John and I will then answer your questions.
Company Name: Wells Fargo
Company Ticker: WFC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 15
Our third quarter results demonstrated consistent financial performance and momentum across a variety of key business
drivers. We continued to have strong loan growth and deposit growth across our diversified Commercial and Consumer
businesses. We grew revenue by generating growth in net interest income and noninterest income. We produced
positive operating leverage as our expenses declined. Credit quality remain strong with net charge-offs of only 31 basis
points of average loans, and we operated within our targeted ranges for ROA, ROE, efficiency and net payout ratio. Let
me now highlight these key drivers in more detail.
On page three we show the strong year-over-year growth John highlighted including revenue, pre-tax, pre-provision
profit, loans, deposits, net income and EPS, and we reduced our common shares outstanding by 106.5 million shares
over the past year.
Turning to page four, we continued to benefit from the strength of our balance sheet which has positioned us well to
take advantage of growth opportunities including our recently-announced acquisitions. We grew total assets by 7%
from a year ago and 2% from second quarter, with growth in loans, short-term investments and investment securities.
Our funding sources increased with continued deposit growth and increased long-term debt and short-term borrowings.
Turning to the income statement overview on page five, revenue increased $557 million from second quarter with
growth in net interest and noninterest income, and we generated positive operating leverage as expenses declined.
As shown on page six we had strong broad-based loan growth in the third quarter, our 17th consecutive quarter of
year-over-year growth. Our core loan portfolio grew by $73.4 billion or 9% from a year ago and was up $17.1 billion
from second quarter. Commercial loans grew $9.4 billion and consumer loans grew $7.7 billion from second quarter.
Our total loan portfolio is balanced between commercial and consumer loans with commercial loans now 50% of our
portfolio. Our portfolio has become more balanced as we've experienced runoff in our liquidating consumer portfolios
and have grown our commercial portfolios through organic growth and acquisitions.
On page seven we highlight the diversity of our loan growth. C&I loans were up $38 billion or 15% from a year ago.
The growth was diversified across our wholesale businesses with double-digit year-over-year growth in asset-backed
finance, corporate banking, commercial real estate, structured real estate and government and institutional banking.
Commercial real estate loans grew $12.8 billion or 10% from a year ago and included the second quarter GE Capital
transaction and organic growth. Core 1-4 family first mortgage loans grew $15.3 billion or 7% from a year ago and
reflected continued growth in high-quality nonconforming mortgages. Credit card balances were up $4 billion or 14%
from a year ago benefiting from strong new account growth, more active accounts and the Dillard's portfolio
acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2014. Auto loans were up $3.9 billion or 7% from last year. We had record new
originations in the third quarter, up 10% from a year ago, reflecting the strong auto market while we remain disciplined
in our approach.
As highlighted on page 8 we had $1.2 trillion of average deposits in the third quarter, up $71.8 billion from a year ago
and up $13.6 billion from second quarter. This growth was broad-based across our commercial and consumer
businesses. Our average deposit cost reached eight basis points, down two basis points from a year ago and stable with
the second quarter. We continue to successfully grow our primary consumer checking customers, which were up 5.8%
from a year ago, and our primary small business and business banking checking customers increased 5%.
Page nine highlights our revenue diversification and the balance between spread and fee income. Our earning asset mix
results in diversified sources of interest income and the drivers of fee generation are diverse also. We had strong equity
gains in the third quarter comprising 9% of our fee income, up from 5% last quarter and 7% a year ago. Our total
market-sensitive revenue, which includes trading and gains from debt and equity investments, increased $210 million
from second quarter but was down slightly from a year ago.
We grew net interest income $516 million or 5% from a year ago reflecting strong growth in loans and securities and
by adding duration to the balance sheet. The $187 million increase in net interest income from second quarter reflected
growth in investments and loans including the benefit from the GE Capital loan purchase and financing transaction
related to commercial real estate assets that settled late in the second quarter. Net interest income also reflected one
additional day in the quarter accounting for about one-third of the increase from second quarter. These benefits were
Company Name: Wells Fargo
Company Ticker: WFC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 15
partially offset by reduced income from variable sources including purchase credit impaired loan recoveries, periodic
dividends, and loan fees.
The net interest margin declined one basis point from the second quarter. The decline was due to customer-driven
deposit growth which reduced the margin by three basis points but had minimal impact to net interest income. Lower
income from variable sources also reduced the margin by three basis points. These decreases were partially offset by
balance sheet growth and re-pricing driven by security purchases and higher loan balances which benefited the margin
by five basis points.
As I have discussed previously, our view on interest rates has evolved over the past year to be more of a lower for
longer expectation for both short-term and long-term rates. As a result, we've been adding duration to our balance
sheet. However, our balance sheet remains asset sensitive and we're positioned to benefit from higher rates and we
expect to be able to grow net interest income over the long term even if the rate environment continues to be
challenging.
Total non-interest income increased $370 million from second quarter driven by higher equity gains, other income,
deposit service charges, and card fees. Gains from equity investments were up $403 million from second quarter
reflecting strong results from venture capital, private equity, and other investments. We recognized gains on more than
10 different holdings, demonstrating the diversity of our equity portfolio and our long-term commitment to this
business. Non-controlling interest reduced the impact of the equity gains to our net income and increased $120 million
from second quarter.
The other non-interest income category was up $406 million in the third quarter, driven by the impact of lower interest
rates on our long-term debt hedges. As a reminder, we are required from an accounting perspective to measure the
hedge effectiveness at the end of each quarter and while the net impact is generally expected to be zero over the life of
an instrument, interest rate and currency volatility can cause this line item to vary from quarter to quarter. Other income
also increased from higher income on our equity method investments as well as the gain on our sale of warranty
solutions which happened in the third quarter.
Mortgage banking revenue declined $116 million from second quarter. Origination volume of $55 billion was down
11% from second quarter reflecting the expected seasonal slowdown in the purchase market but was up 15% from a
year ago, benefiting from a stronger housing market. 66% of originations were for purchases in the third quarter, up
from 54% in the second quarter.
We ended the quarter with a $34 billion application pipeline, down 11% from the second quarter but up 36% from a
year earlier. Based on the current rate environment, the level of our pipeline, and the seasonal slowdown in the
purchase market, we currently expect originations in the fourth quarter to be lower than the third quarter.
Our production margin on residential held for sale mortgage originations was 188 basis points in the third quarter. This
ratio has been refined from how it was determined in prior quarters in an effort to provide investors with better
information on our residential originate and sell business. Based on our updated approach, we currently expect our
production margin in the fourth quarter to remain within the range of the past five quarters at 170 basis points to 195
basis points.
As shown on page 12, expenses were down $70 million from the second quarter. The decline was primarily due to
lower employee benefits from reduced deferred compensation expense, which was largely offset in trading. Expenses
also benefited from lower advertising expense and reduced insurance expense, reflecting seasonally lower,
premium-driven compensation costs in crop insurance. We also made a $126 million contribution to the Wells Fargo
Foundation, which increased other non-interest expense.
Operating losses were stable from the second quarter, but they remained higher than the five quarter average, as we
continued to have elevated litigation accruals for various legal matters. We continue to invest in our businesses with
particular focus on risk, cyber and technology projects. These investments were partially reflected in higher outside
professional services expense in the quarter. Our efficiency ratio improved to 56.7% in the third quarter. We're focused
on managing expenses, partially reflected in the 27% reduction in travel and entertainment expense from a year ago, as
Company Name: Wells Fargo
Company Ticker: WFC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 15
we've reduced non-customer facing travel. However, we expect to operate at the higher end of our target efficiency
ratio range of 55% to 59% for the full year 2015, and until our revenue benefits from higher rates, we expect to remain
at the upper end of that range.
Turning to our business segments, starting on page 13, Community Banking earned $3.7 billion in the third quarter, up
7% from a year ago and up 10% from second quarter. One of the drivers of our long-term growth is our ability to attract
new households to Wells Fargo. Year-to-date through August, we've had the strongest new retail bank household
growth in four years, and during the third quarter, we announced an initiative that makes the experience of opening an
account easier for the millions of consumers who choose to bank with us. Our new and existing customers are
increasingly using our digital offerings with active online customers up 8% and active mobile customers up 17% from a
year ago. We are growing our credit and debit card businesses through new customer growth and increased usage
among existing customers. Credit card purchase volume was $18 billion, up 15% from a year ago, and debit card
purchase volume was $71 billion, up 8% from a year ago.
Our Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement segment has been renamed Wealth and Investment Management, reflecting the
realignment of our Asset Management business from Wholesale Banking into Wealth and Investment Management.
We also moved our reinsurance businesses from Wealth and Investment Management and our strategic auto
investments from Community Banking into Wholesale Banking. These changes are part of our regular course of
business. We're always looking for ways to better align our businesses, deepen existing customer relationships and
create a best-in-class structure to benefit both our customers and our shareholders. For comparative purposes,
prior-period segment results have been revised to reflect these changes.
Despite a challenging equity market environment, Wealth and Investment Management earned $606 million in the third
quarter, up 10% from a year ago and up 3% from the second quarter. These results reflected strong balance sheet
growth and net interest income growing 18% from a year ago. Average core deposits grew 6% from a year ago and
loans grew 16%, the ninth consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year growth. Loan growth was driven by an
increase in high-quality non-conforming mortgage loans and security based lending.
Retail Brokerage managed account assets were flat from a year ago and down 6% from second quarter. The linked
quarter decline reflected the weak equity markets. As a reminder, managed account asset fees are priced at the
beginning of the quarter, so fourth quarter fees will reflect the weaker September 30 market valuations.
Wholesale Banking earned $1.8 billion in the third quarter, down 8% from a year ago and 13% from second quarter.
The linked quarter decline was driven by lower non-interest income, primarily as a result of lower equity investment
gains and reduced sales and trading and investment banking activity, reflecting market volatility. Balance sheet growth
remained strong, with average loan growth of 15% from a year ago. This growth benefited from the GE Capital loan
purchase related to commercial real estate assets that closed last quarter and also reflected broad-based growth across
most wholesale businesses. Average core deposits grew 12% from a year ago. Treasury Management revenue
continued to grow, up 9% from a year ago, driven by new sales of Treasury Management solutions.
Turning to page 16, credit quality remained strong in the third quarter. Our net charge-off rate was 31 basis points of
average loans, up slightly from second quarter, primarily from seasonally higher auto losses. Non-performing assets
have declined for 12 consecutive quarters and were down $1.1 billion from second quarter. This improvement was
broad-based, driven by improvements in our commercial and consumer real estate portfolios. We did not have a reserve
release in the third quarter, the first quarter with no reserve release since the first quarter of 2010.
While we continued to benefit from improvements in the performance of our residential real estate portfolio, we also
increased commercial reserves reflecting deterioration in the energy sector. As a reminder, only 2% of our total loans
outstanding are in the oil and gas sector and we continue to work proactively with our customers as we manage through
the current industry cycle. We've started the fall redeterminations and reserve based energy loans are performing as
expected. We believe the energy services sector will incur greater challenges in the near term as it adjusts to lower
commodity prices, and this view is reflected in our reserving process.
Company Name: Wells Fargo
Company Ticker: WFC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 15
We're also monitoring all loan types and MSAs where greater than 3% of employment is directly tied to oil production.
To-date, while we've not experienced measurable differences in the portfolio performance between oil and nonoil
communities, over time we would expect some correlated stress in communities that are dependent on oil and gas.
Future allowance levels, whether they're higher or lower, will be driven by a variety of factors, including loan growth,
portfolio performance and general economic conditions.
Turning to page 17, our capital levels remain strong with our estimated common equity tier 1 ratio under Basel III fully
phased in at 10.7% in the third quarter. We returned $3.2 billion to shareholders in the third quarter through dividends
and net share repurchases and our net payout ratio was 60%.
In summary, our third quarter results demonstrated the benefit of our diversified business model with strong growth in
loans and deposits and revenue growth reflecting higher net interest and higher noninterest income. Our returns are
among the best in the industry with an ROA of 132 basis points and an ROE of 12.62%. Our strong liquidity and
capital positions us well to serve our existing customers while growing our customer base organically and through
acquisitions.
Let me conclude by highlighting the transactions we've announced over the past couple of weeks. We summarize these
announcements starting on slide 20. As John mentioned earlier, operating from a position of strength allows us to make
quality acquisitions that help us serve more markets and meet more of our customers' financial needs. In connection
with these transactions, we maintained our long-standing disciplined due diligence process and our strong capital
position provides us with the capacity to acquire these businesses and assets. I'll start by highlighting the largest
transaction which involves approximately $32 billion of assets.
Yesterday we announced an agreement to acquire GE Capital's Commercial Distribution Finance and Vendor Finance
businesses as well as certain corporate finance loan and lease assets. Over 600 Wells Fargo team members were
involved in the evaluation and due diligence which occurred over the past few months. This agreement provides us
with a unique opportunity to add relationships and earning assets in businesses where GE Capital was an unequivocal
market leader and where we either have meaningful experience or, in the case of commercial distribution finance, is a
strong complement to our existing capabilities. These businesses have established and deep relationships with their
customers and we're excited about the opportunity to enhance these relationships with the breadth of our product
offerings.
These businesses are run by experienced teams with average tenures of over 20 years. We will also benefit from the
acquisition of GE Capital's state-of-the-art customer-facing systems that will create efficiencies. We expect this
transaction to close in the first quarter of 2016 with minimal impact on our liquidity position. Over the medium to long
term we plan to fund the acquisition with anticipated growth in deposits and in the short term we will likely have to
increase our borrowings to preserve our liquidity position. Similar to the GE Capital transaction related to commercial
real estate assets that closed in the second quarter, the loans and leases, roughly 90% based in the U.S. and Canada, will
be recorded at fair value inclusive of a lifetime credit loss at close. Including transition costs related to integrating these
businesses we expect this acquisition to be neutral to modestly accretive to our 2016 results.
At the end of September, we also announced an agreement to acquire GE Railcar Services, which is expected to close
in the first quarter of 2016. This transaction involves 77,000 railcars and just over 1,000 locomotives as well as
associated operating and long-term leases that will be added to our existing First Union Rail business, making us the
second-largest railcar and locomotive leasing company in North America. Similar to the GE Capital transaction that we
completed earlier this year, we were able to find a partner, in this case, a Berkshire Hathaway Company, to agree to
acquire the assets that did not align well with our business strategy. This acquisition will add to the quality and
diversification of our existing fleet and add to our capacity to meet the industry's growing demand for railcars.
Just to summarize the timing related to our GE transactions, our results this quarter include the impact from the GE
Capital transaction related to commercial real estate assets that closed in the second quarter and we expect to close in
the first quarter of 2016 the GE Railcar transaction and the GE Capital transactions we announced yesterday.
John and I will now be happy to answer your questions.
Company Name: Wells Fargo
Company Ticker: WFC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 15
Q&A
Operator
[Operator Instructions] We'll pause for just a moment to compile the Q&A roster. Our first question will come from the
line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.
<Q - Joseph Morford>: Thanks. Good afternoon, everyone – or, good morning, everyone, it's still too early.
<A - John G. Stumpf>: Hi, Joe. Good morning.
<Q - Joseph Morford>: Hi. I guess following up first on the last comments about the GE Capital acquisitions. Just
curious to learn a little bit more about fit with the existing platform that you have where some of the synergies are and
then any color you may be able to share in terms of the profitability of these businesses, the relative yields? I guess I'm
a little surprised you're saying maybe only modest earnings accretion is that due to some of the expenses you're
bringing on with their staff and/or higher near-term borrowing costs?
<A - John G. Stumpf>: So with respect to the first part of your question, Joe, the businesses line up well as we said.
The Commercial Distribution Finance business is an asset-based lending business that operates between OEMs on the
one hand and distributors on the other. It will fit in Wells Fargo alongside what we'd describe as Wells Fargo Capital
Finance, our ABL business. The GE team has leadership and specialty in their version of ABL lending but of course
we've got a team that's been together for 20-plus years in ABL and this will complement them nicely. As we
mentioned, the technology that they use to run their business is also something that we think we can benefit from in our
broader business over time.
The Vendor Finance business aligns well with our equipment finance business. Our equipment finance business tends
to focus on the users of equipment. Their equipment finance business has big relationships with OEMs who are selling
equipment. And so we think that they're very complementary when put together. With respect to the question about
2016 accretion, we think there'll be plenty of expenses in order – people expenses, technology integration expenses,
premises expenses perhaps and other things, so we're focused on doing that integration the right way. It's going to take
some time. We're going to be very thoughtful about it and we're more focused on the medium to long-term impact than
what this means in 2016.
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: Joe, I've been around the acquisition game for a long time and what we typically have
said in the past, and this is probably truer with the depository that we look for accretion by year three. It'll happen
sooner in this case because it's not as complex. But we've learned that to do these things well you practice on yourself
not on your customers, you get everything done right and we really look at this as John mentioned as a long term
value-add to the company. So things that close in the first quarter, you're bound to have expenses around integration to
get this really done right.
<A - John G. Stumpf>: Actually, Joe, you also asked about funding and that is a part of the equation here. We will be
term funding components of this, so it's not as easy as absorbing the existing cash. I think some of the early analyst
reports have reflected that belief. So we'll be layering in some term funding in advance of the assets coming on, that'll
have some incremental costs et cetera. And we're trying to maintain our liquidity buffers through and after the addition
of these assets, so that makes it a little bit more complicated than some of the math that I've seen so far.
<Q - Joseph Morford>: Okay. That's all really helpful. I appreciate that color. I guess the other question was just I
recognize the equity investment gains this quarter really came from a number of different investments. But any color on
maybe what's a good run rate there or just maybe market sensitive revenues overall recognizing that they were down a
couple of hundred million this quarter.
<A - John G. Stumpf>: In both cases I would look at something like a five quarter average of equity gains on its own
and then equity gains, gains on debt and trading activities as well. I think they're probably more representative of a run
rate.
Company Name: Wells Fargo
Company Ticker: WFC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 15
<Q - Joseph Morford>: Okay. Thanks so much.
<A - John G. Stumpf>: You're welcome.
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: Thank you, Joe.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks. Please go ahead.
<Q - Marty Lacey Mosby>: Thanks for taking my questions. You talked about the expenses being elevated with legal.
And last quarter there was about $225 million increase. Is that still the same number that's kind of embedded in the
overall operating expenses this quarter?
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: Marty, there's going to be a run rate of what we, about where we had last quarter – what
we had last quarter and where we are this quarter, probably for a period of time. I mean, each individual legal matter is
its own thing, and we certainly can't comment on litigation, but I would think of them as part of the environment that
we're in, and operating losses in total are probably going to remain about where they are. If they begin to come back
down, that would be great, but I wouldn't consider this to be outsized at, call it, $500 million for the quarter for total
operating losses.
<Q - Marty Lacey Mosby>: The other thing is that you look at Wholesale Banking, that's where you see some of the
pressures that we have seen in other banks with capital markets activities. You have the reduction in the fee income, but
not much reduction in expenses. You talked about compensation expenses going lower, but were offset by losses. Can
you kind of break those two things out, so we can get a feel for the two components in the expense line?
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: Yeah, so I would expect the expenses that are directly related to revenue to generally,
especially over the course of the year, to reflect the production of revenue. It might not be as linear from quarter to
quarter as revenue moves up or down, and that's been true for some time. Where we have operating losses, like a legal
settlement, for example, that will temporarily elevate expenses in that business unit. At the firm, while they may remain
elevated, they don't necessarily remain elevated in Wholesale Banking or in any individual segment. So I wouldn't
expect, for example, compensation expense to cycle for the firm as a whole or for the division as a whole as a result of
a one-time in an operating loss. But all told, I would say that we pay for performance in that group. The total – our total
approach to performance-based comp seems to hold very well with the revenue sources that we have, and the operating
leverage and the results of the segment make sense through the cycle, or frankly, for any full year.
<Q - Marty Lacey Mosby>: Thanks. And any further duration extension on the asset structure, given the outlook that
rates will stay lower for longer? And I appreciate...
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: Not much. You could see that we added a few billion dollars of net securities to our
investment portfolio. We like where we are from an asset sensitivity standpoint today. We're going to be adding these
incremental assets that we talked about in connection with the GE portfolio, some of which are leases, so you think of
them as a little bit longer-term and fixed rate, which will have the same impact as adding securities. So we slowed
down a little bit in adding duration in the third quarter compared to the second quarter, which I think you can see in the
deck. And we still have conviction that we're probably in a lower for longer rate scenario.
<Q - Marty Lacey Mosby>: Thanks.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA. Please go ahead.
Company Name: Wells Fargo
Company Ticker: WFC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 15
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: I just wanted to follow up on that last comment, you believe you're in a lower for longer rate
environment. Do you think the U.S. economy is getting better or worse, I guess? I'm hearing, on the one hand, John,
you're mentioning some additional confidence in some areas, and on the other hand, you're mentioning the global
economy as being a headwind, so which is it? Is the U.S. economy getting better or worse?
<A - John G. Stumpf>: Yeah, Mike, it's a good question. I think – we think it's getting better, but only incrementally
better. So as we – you know none of us know, of course, but this year, the GDP in the U.S., let's call it 2.1%, maybe
2.2%. Maybe next year it's maybe 2.5%, something like that, 2.4% to 2.5%. So better, but not substantially better. You
know us well, so you know that most of our business is U.S.-centric, but clearly, some of our businesses that we
support and do business with have an international component to them, either sales or whatever the case is. And the rest
of the world, the biggest risk, I think, to the U.S. economy is what's happening in the rest of the world. I think that's
unquestionable. So but better, but not hugely better.
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: And with respect to rates, the lower for longer applies, we think of it as, at the short end
and at the medium to...
<A - John G. Stumpf>: Correct.
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: ...long end of the curve. And so if the Fed starts moving rates in December or in the first
quarter, we will be sitting here a year from now, we think, with one, two, or three, 25-basis point moves under our belt.
It's probably best case with respect to how far things might move, and unless there's meaningful inflation, which isn't
on anybody's radar screen right now, then it doesn't feel like that's going to have an impact on long-term rates. It feels
like more of a flatter curve environment and long rates in the vicinity of where they are now unless something really
different begins to emerge. And of course the good news is if we're wrong about our forecast, we perform better. We're
constructing ourselves to do well in this environment but if we end up in a higher short-term or a higher long-term rate
environment than we're forecasting, that's actually – that's net good for Wells Fargo.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: With that expectation, are you taking a second look at expenses? I mean your efficiency ratio
this quarter moved in a better range, but do you have a plan B to say we expect these headwinds to last for longer,
therefore we're going to do something extra?
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: Yeah, I'd describe it as a full-time plan B, which is that we're always looking at ways to
be more efficient. We highlighted a couple of them over the last few quarters. We took a hard look at T&E a year ago
and we're down 25% year-over-year. We've talked about our real estate strategy where we shrunk by 20 million square
feet over the last few years and still have more to go. There are a variety of programs like that but most of that savings
gets absorbed by areas where we're changing or improving the firm, where we're spending money on compliance, on
risk management, on technology, on innovation. So I've got some conviction that we're not going to move below the
higher end of our range while we're still in this lower rate environment because whatever savings we get by being
thrifty, we end up reinvesting into the programs that I mentioned.
<A - John G. Stumpf>: Yeah, just to put an emphasis on that, Mike, expenses get a lot of discussion around here and
we're keenly focused on them because, as John mentioned, you save – and we think of it in ways of what will the
customer pay for, and what makes us a stronger long-term provider of services to our customers, and to be a more
relevant company to all our constituents. And you save on one side and you invest on the other side. And some of those
investments have been fairly significant. But it's a constant drumbeat around here.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: All right. Thank you.
<A - John G. Stumpf>: Thank you, Mike.
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Company Name: Wells Fargo
Company Ticker: WFC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 15
<Q - Erika P. Najarian>: Yes. Good morning. Just to follow up on Joe's question, John, could you give us a sense of
what the average yield of the $32 billion in GE assets that you're putting on and what the fee income generation was for
last year?
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: So, no, just because we haven't disclosed the yields on that portfolio. But I can tell you,
Erika, it looks a lot like that portion of our own Wholesale portfolio. and I would add, frankly, that their approach to the
risk analysis of their loans looks like our risk analysis of their loans, and their pricing on those loans looks like our
pricing of similar loans. So you should think of it as a component piece of what our Wholesale Banking outcomes look
like. And in fee generation, is the question what GE generated in fees with those loans or what ...?
<Q - Erika P. Najarian>: Yes. Or that business that you're acquiring generated in fees.
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: So the revenue streams for that business are more net interest income streams rather than
fee streams. There are certainly loan fees but they get amortized into yield. I can tell you in our own analysis of this and
I'm sure in yours also, as we look out over some period of time, we can imagine a lot of other products and services that
we'll be providing to these same customers that GE wasn't in a position to offer them directly. So it's part of the
long-term value creation, but there isn't a run rate of that in there today because GE was primarily a lender rather than a
full-service provider of banking capabilities.
<Q - Erika P. Najarian>: Got it. And just wanted to get some clarification on your comments earlier. Because adding
these assets has the same impact of extending duration on the asset side, should we expect cash balances to stay
relatively stable from the average balances of the third quarter?
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: It depends on what's happening with deposit growth over the timeframe that we're
talking about. This is five or six months in the future, so all things being equal, maybe you could say yes. And by cash,
cash and HQLA, or high-quality liquid assets, are interchangeable in some ways. So I would look at the sum of those
things, not just cash, depending on how our rate view evolves and what goes on in terms of the opportunity to get more
invested, et cetera. These are risk assets, that's one sort of use of cash. Cash at the Fed or cash in treasuries are two
other related uses of cash. So I don't want to overcomplicate it but it's a little bit different than just the cash balance.
<Q - Erika P. Najarian>: Got it. And just to sneak one last one in, your results clearly demonstrate your strengths on
your relationships with the consumer in the corporate side. Given your balance sheet and capital strength and some
difficult headlines that we are seeing from European banks, how are you thinking in terms of your medium term
strategy to increase your market share with institutional clients, given potential market share dislocation and your
strength in capital, particularly in leveraged capital?
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: Yeah, I wouldn't think of our medium-term strategy any differently than how you've
seen us behave in the recent past in that area. We have great relationships with a large number of institutional clients
and counterparties and there are sometimes interesting things to do, but we've got high regard for our capital and our
funding and real meaningful expectations for how we get paid for using it as we work on those relationships, so we're
already doing that. From time to time something interesting will reveal itself and we'll consider it, but there's no change
in strategy that is going to result in us having a different risk profile or trying to fill a major vacuum that may be being
left behind by a European bank or something else over the next few years.
<A - John G. Stumpf>: Yeah, what you've liked about us in the past you'll like about us in the future regarding that.
<Q - Erika P. Najarian>: Got it. Thank you so much.
<A - John G. Stumpf>: Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities. Please go ahead.
Company Name: Wells Fargo
Company Ticker: WFC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 15
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: Thanks, and good morning.
<A - John G. Stumpf>: Hi, Eric.
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: I just want – hi. How are you? I just want to make sure that I'm fully understanding kind of
what the key points of leverage are in the income statement as we look out into next year. Obviously it seems like the
biggest contributor as a revenue driver is asset growth stemming in part from these acquisitions, but given the sort of
NIM commentary and the efficiency ratio commentary should we expect positive operating leverage into next year or
more basically zero?
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: Well, we're always striving to generate positive operating leverage, so that's a goal as we
set out to plan for the coming period. In terms of what happens, it'll reflect what we're primarily emphasizing, which is
the growth in relationships which leads to a growth in loans and a growth in deposits, credit discipline and further
penetration on all of our – in our product areas with the customers that we have. How the macro events sit on top of
that with respect to where rates go, et cetera, it's tough to know. And we're not as focused on that, or can't be as focused
on that because we can't control some of those outcomes. So we're setting ourselves up to have expense discipline,
we're setting ourselves up to add relationships, we're setting ourselves up to deliver into those relationships, which you
see in loans, deposits and many of our product areas. But how it lands in a given quarter is more difficult to forecast.
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: Okay.
<A - John G. Stumpf>: Eric, we're enjoying some of the strongest growth years we have seen in what we describe as
the core building blocks of long-term shareholder value creation. Relationships, loans, deposits, depth of relationships,
new primary checking household growth and as John mentioned, depending on the macro environment, not all of that
shows up in that value creation the next quarter. But over the long period or even interim period, that is the best way we
think to successfully grow and add to the things that our customers and our shareholders value.
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: No, certainly. So it sounds like then it's basically top line-led operating leverage stemming
in part from continued shift in mix of revenue sources. Is that fair?
<A - John G. Stumpf>: Well, we surely want the top line, but we're watching the expenses where nothing goes
unexamined around here, and we'll see how things turn out.
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: And if I can just do one quick follow up on asset quality, it sounds like from your
commentary the go-forward expectation should be for provision to roughly equal NCOs. Is that right?
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: It's tough to forecast. We've gone through five years of reserve releasing. We've been
saying for a few quarters that's what's going to happen subsequently is going to reflect loan growth, portfolio
performance and general economic outcomes. Does that mean that we remain at a no release, no provision level? That's
too precise to forecast. But it's true that if we grow our portfolio and the new assets look like the assets that we already
have that we'll begin providing for those, which could become more of a net outcome, as we're already at a generational
low in terms of charge-offs, which means that credit performance can't really improve meaningfully from where we are
today. It's already that good.
<Q - Eric Wasserstrom>: Great. Thanks very much.
<A - John G. Stumpf>: Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Siefers with Sandler O'Neill. Please go ahead.
<Q - Scott Siefers>: Good morning, guys.
<A - John G. Stumpf>: Hey. Good morning.
Company Name: Wells Fargo
Company Ticker: WFC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 15
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: Good morning.
<Q - Scott Siefers>: John, I was hoping you could talk for a moment on some of the changes in the loan yields within
the commercial buckets. A few of them like commercial mortgage, construction and leasing, they come under a little
more pressure than I would've thought. I imagine, at least to a certain extent that's due to both the financing and the GE
deals, but was curious to get your color and thoughts on kind of what might be going on there.
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: Yeah, so I wouldn't think of that as attributable to those assets coming on. It really has
more to do with the variable sources, the loan fees that sometimes accelerate that run through there, PCI recoveries or
other things that are more – they're harder to forecast and more one-time, so you see them changing these two, the
yields in these two dates side by side, but it's not a general change in the inherent yield, or the customer yield of the
portfolio.
<Q - Scott Siefers>: Okay. All right. That make sense. And then just one sort of nitpicky question. Did you guys
quantify anywhere the size of the gain from the warranty solutions business? I think you'd, when you announced you'd
sold it for $150 million in cash, but I just wasn't sure where it had been recorded on the books.
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: Yep. It's less than a penny per share. I don't think that we did put that anywhere, but
you're the first person to ask it, so there you go.
<Q - Scott Siefers>: All right. Okay. I think that's – I'm all set. Thank you very much.
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: Thank you very much.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of David Hilder with Drexel Hamilton. Please go ahead.
<Q - David Bruce Hilder>: Good morning. Thank you. I noticed what appeared to be a reversal of a prior deferred
comp expense and wondered what the reason for that was.
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: Yeah, don't think of it as a reversal. Every quarter, our employee benefits expense, on
the one hand, and our trading results, on the other hand, reflect the outcomes from our deferred comp approach. We,
our employees voluntarily defer comp, and we neutralize the outcomes for them and we provide that return and we do
it on a hedged basis, so that our results reflect – when equity markets go up, our trading line goes up and our employee
benefits expense goes up. When equity markets move down, not just to generalize, the reverse is true. In this quarter,
we had equity markets down. We had trading revenue down, and we had an equal amount of employee benefits
expense down, so it's really just the cyclical ebbs and flows of that program. No change in approach or reversal of
anything.
<Q - David Bruce Hilder>: Great. Thanks very much.
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: You're welcome. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research, LLC. Please go ahead.
<Q - Nancy Avans Bush>: Good morning, guys. How are you?
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: Good morning.
<A - John G. Stumpf>: Nancy, good morning.
<Q - Nancy Avans Bush>: Two questions for you. John, when you did the initial GE portfolio acquisition – I guess
that was what, a couple of quarters ago – you said that you were going to continue to look at assets at GE, and
Company Name: Wells Fargo
Company Ticker: WFC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 15
obviously, you did. I guess my question, is GE going to continue to be the gift that keeps on giving? I mean, is there
more there that you're looking at? Or is this sort of the end of the GE pot?
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: So you may have seen the list in the paper today of the 13 announcements that they've
had since they declared that they were going to wind down GE Capital, and three of those line items are attributable to
our activity: the commercial real estate, the railcar, and now the commercial businesses. And we, just incidentally, we
look very closely at many of the other things that looked like they might have a fit for Wells Fargo, and for one reason
or another, they were a better fit for somebody else, either because of the asset type or the pricing scenario or
something else.
I think this pretty much concludes their U.S. business. I think they've got some things to sell around the world, and
because of our U.S.-centric approach, it's probably true that we're not, we wouldn't be playing a role like the role that
we've played in these three portfolios, on those future acquisitions. Now having said that, we've been an advisor in
some of these other transactions. We've been a lender to a winning bidder in some of these other transactions. There
may be other things to do, but in the way that we've approached these three businesses that we're – or these three
portfolios that we're acquiring, I don't think there's more of that coming from GE Capital.
<Q - Nancy Avans Bush>: My second question would be whether the integration of this latest large business from GE
is basically going to preclude you from looking at other possible asset portfolios, et cetera at other companies due to the
funding issues?
<A - John G. Stumpf>: Nancy, I'd answer it this way. Never is a really definitive word, but I'd say on the other hand
the focus right here now is to do this and do it really well. This is a lot to say grace over. We have lots of experiences in
acquisitions. We're going to treat this as a merger. Doing it well provides huge benefits to all those involved, and that's
job one, job two and job three right now, do this really well.
<Q - Nancy Avans Bush>: If you guys could just clarify, are you going to be moving people? How is this physically
going to work?
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: These businesses are primarily headquartered in the Chicago area and the Dallas area,
and nothing about that is intended to change.
<Q - Nancy Avans Bush>: Okay.
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: So there may be some opportunity for their people in the field to team up with our
people in the field, but the bulk of the people will remain doing what they're doing right where they're doing, and we'll
figure out how to help, how to improve, how to optimize, but not a big migration.
<A - John G. Stumpf>: Yeah, of course we have real estate and locations and people on the Wells side in both those
locations.
<Q - Nancy Avans Bush>: Okay. All right. Great. Thank you.
<A - John G. Stumpf>: Great. Thank you, Nancy.
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Your next question will come from the line of John Pancari with Evercore ISI. Please go ahead.
<Q - John Pancari>: Good morning.
<A - John G. Stumpf>: Hey, John.
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: Hey, John.
<Q - John Pancari>: Back to the loan yield topic, just based on your answer there, are you implying that that
commercial yield decline of 15 basis points that we saw this quarter could actually snap back next quarter?
Company Name: Wells Fargo
Company Ticker: WFC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 15
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: It depends on what happens with resolutions, with prepayments that accelerate loan fees
into yield, et cetera. So it could. I'd say as a general matter based on where we are in the cycle, there are fewer
resolutions, fewer PCI wind ups today, and I wouldn't expect – we're not making bad loans anymore, or buying them
for that matter, in quite that way. So I would expect that type of accounting to quiet down and more reflect the
amortization of loan fees into yield and then of course the acceleration of those when loans prepay. We are in a higher
commercial loan prepayment environment probably, just because things are so liquid. But I wouldn't expect it to snap
back, but it certainly could increase a little bit, move around, et cetera.
<Q - John Pancari>: Okay. And then one other thing on the margin. The swaps – I just want to get an idea of how
much the swaps benefited the margin in the quarter and then also your appetite to add incremental swaps [inaudible]
(54:04).
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: So we don't break out what the swaps benefit is to the margin. As we've described, our
approach to adding duration to the balance sheet, just for everyone's benefit, a portion of that's been done by swapping
floating rate loans to fixed which has a very similar impact to adding fixed rate securities to the portfolio. We don't
anticipate a lot more of that activity today. I mentioned in response to one of the earlier questions that we think we are
about where we need to be from an asset sensitivity perspective. That could change as deposit flows ebb and flow, and
we could end up with a lot more liquidity to deploy. But at the moment I think we like where we are from an asset
sensitivity point of view, and so we probably won't be moving rapidly down the path toward meaningfully growing the
securities portfolio today or swapping more floating rate loans.
<Q - John Pancari>: Okay. And then lastly, just on the credit side, on energy, just want to see if you are in a position
to quantify your energy reserve right at this point? And then also your criticized ratio in energy lending?
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: We don't break out the components of the allowance, but I can tell you that our approach
through the first and second redetermination dates since the price of crude moved down meaningfully has been from
my observation a conservative approach. We're re-rating credits down before waiting for information from borrowers
based on what we know about relationships and trying to get ahead of this. So while frankly as I mentioned in the
services space, we could continue to see more negative migration or even some meaningful negative migration in the
industry. We feel great about where we are from an allowance perspective in the energy space where we stand today.
But we don't break out the component pieces of the allowance.
<Q - John Pancari>: Okay. Thanks. And then one more very quick one on that topic. The AFS portfolio with oil and
gas bonds, I think you indicated a couple of quarters back it was around $1.5 billion. Is it still around that amount?
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: I don't have the total in front of me but I can tell you, which is part of your question –
actually $1.4 billion is the number. We took some OTTI in the quarter in that space. Of the corporate names in that
portfolio, energy names were the ones that were the most underwater for the longest period of time, which is certainly
part of our review for other than temporary impairments, and in the quarter in our results reflects taking those
impairments through the P&L. So we feel good about our basis in those assets.
<Q - John Pancari>: Got it. All right. Thank you.
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: Thank you.
Operator
Our final question will come from the line of Paul Miller with FBR. Please go ahead.
<Q - Paul J. Miller>: Yeah, thank you very much. Most of my questions have been answered. But on the jumbo loan
market, it's one of the areas I think if you're not number one – I think you are number one. But we're seeing more and
more market share go to the jumbo markets. Can you add more color around that? And then on the loans that you put
on your portfolio, my guess is most of them are jumbos. And when do you feel that you're going to be filled up there?
Company Name: Wells Fargo
Company Ticker: WFC US
Date: 2015-10-14
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 15
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: Of the single-family mortgage loans that we put on our balance sheet, virtually all of
them are prime jumbo loans because, as you know, there's no secondary market for those loans. So to serve those
customers, we end up keeping them. Frankly, there is no magical number in terms of when we're full. Our total
single-family real estate portfolio hasn't shrunk or grown in the aggregate over the last few years meaningfully. The
level has stayed about the same but we've had home equity paying off, we've had Pick-A-Pay paying off, we've had
lower quality loans winding down, and prime jumbo loans winding up a little bit.
And I guess I would anticipate that to continue. As jobs are stronger and housing is stronger, there are more people
looking at those types of homes, requiring those types of loans, and only a balance sheet lender can provide that loan
because there's no place in size for a mortgage company or anyplace else to go. There's no government program and
there's no private-label market.
<A - John G. Stumpf>: I'd also add this, Paul, that as a percentage, even though the overall real estate, residential real
estate totals have not changed, the quality has improved significantly. And while the totals were the same, since we've
grown our loans, the percentage of those loans as a percentage of our overall portfolio, loan portfolio is down. And
those jumbos also tend to have a bit – they tend to turn over a bit faster. They have a little less duration because those
folks tend to move more often and so forth. And these are for our very best customers, and we surely like that asset
class.
<Q - Paul J. Miller>: Okay, guys. Thank you very much.
<A - John R. Shrewsberry>: Thank you very much.
John G. Stumpf
Thank you. This concludes the call. Thank you all for joining us. We always appreciate your interest and involvement
and again for all the questioners. We will see you here three months from now. It'll be 2016 like in our fourth quarter
earnings. So thank you very much. Bye, bye.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. Thank you all for participating, and you may now
disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.