Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income
Page 1 of 8
Q3 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed Income
Company Participants
• Steve Dahle
• Marion Harris
• Neil M. Schloss
• Stuart John Rowley
Other Participants
• Brian J. Jacoby
• Eric Selle
• Douglas Karson
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third Quarter Fixed Income Conference Call. My name is
Derrick, and I'll be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are now in a listen-only line. Towards the end
of the conference, we shall facilitate a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this
conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Steve Dahle, Manager of Fixed Income, Investor Relations. Please
proceed.
Steve Dahle
Thanks, Derrick. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to all of you who are joining us either via phone or
webcast. On behalf of the entire Ford management team, I'd like to thank you for spending time with us this morning.
With me this morning are Neil Schloss, Ford Vice President and Treasurer; Stuart Rowley, Ford Vice President and
Controller; and Marion Harris, Ford Credit Chief Financial Officer. We have some other members of the management
team who are joining us for the call today, including Sam Smith, Assistant Treasurer; Brian Schaaf, Assistant
Treasurer; and Paul Andonian, Director of Accounting.
Before we begin, I'd like to review a few items. A copy of this morning's press release and the Fixed Income slides that
we will be using today, have been posted on the Ford Motor Company's Investor and Media Web sites for your
reference.
The financial results discussed herein are presented on a preliminary basis. Final data will be in our Form 10-Q.
Additionally, the financial results presented here are on a GAAP basis and in some cases, on non-GAAP basis. Any
non-GAAP financial measures discussed on this call are reconciled to the U.S. GAAP equivalent as part of the
appendix to the slide deck.
Finally, today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for Ford's future
performance. Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments here. The most significant
factors that could affect future results are summarized at the end of this presentation. These risk factors and other key
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income
Page 2 of 8
information are detailed in our SEC filings, including our annual, quarterly, and current reports to the SEC.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Ford Credit CFO, Marion Harris.
Marion Harris
Thanks, Steve. Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us. Today I'll walk through Ford Credit's third quarter
operating highlights, profits and credit residual loss performance. Then Neil will cover Ford Credit's funding liquidity,
as well as automotive cash, debt, and liquidity. We'll have some time for Q&A at the end, so let's get started.
Let's turn to Ford Credit's operating highlights on Slide 1. We had another really strong quarter with pre-tax profit of
$541 million and net income of $365 million. We ended the quarter with managed receivables at a $122 billion, which
is consistent with our expectation and showing nice growth. Credit losses remain at the low end of our historical
experience with third quarter loss-to-receivables ratio at 24 basis points.
At September 30, the allowance for credit losses or reserve was $403 million, or 33 basis points of managed
receivables. Managed leverage was 9.1 to 1. Overall, we're very pleased with our progress and performance. Our
origination practices remain consistent and our balance sheet is strong.
On Slide 2, we explain our results of operations. Our pre-tax profit improved compared with a year-ago as a result of
favorable volume and mix, reflecting primarily higher consumer finance receivables in all geographic segments and an
increase in leasing in North America. Higher credit losses, primarily in North America were a partial offset, reflecting
higher charge-offs and an increase in the reserve.
As shown below the chart, pre-tax profit was higher compared with the second quarter, more than explained by higher
financing margin and favorable volume and mix. Unfavorable residual performance reflecting lower auction values in
North American lease portfolio was a partial offset.
For the full year, we continue to expect pre-tax profit to be equal to or higher than 2014. We now expect year-end
managed receivables of $124 billion to $127 billion. We continue to expect distributions to our parent of about $250
million this year. We expect our managed leverage to remain temporarily above our 8 to 9 to 1 target range, as a result
of the translation effect of the strong U.S. dollar.
Slide 3 shows our quarterly trends of charge-offs, loss to receivables ratio and credit loss reserve. We continue to
experience historically low levels of credit losses. The third quarter LTR of 24 basis points was up 7 basis points from
the prior year, but well below the 10-year average of 46 basis points. Compared to the second quarter, LTR was up 7
basis points, consistent with normal seasonality.
Charge-offs were up $25 million year-over-year, and up $23 million quarter-over-quarter. The reserve as a percentage
of managed receivables was up 1 basis point, and $23 million on an absolute basis from the second quarter. Our credit
loss reserve is based on such factors as historical credit loss performance, portfolio quality and receivables level.
Slide 4 shows the primary credit loss drivers in our U.S. Ford and Lincoln retail financing and lease portfolio, which
comprised about 75% of our worldwide consumer portfolio at September 30. Over 60-day delinquencies remain
consistently low at 13 basis points, down 2 basis points from a year-ago, and up 3 basis points from the second quarter
of 2015.
Repossessions continue at historically low levels. There were 7,000 units or 1.01% of average accounts outstanding,
down 6 basis points from a year-ago and up 12 basis points from the second quarter of 2015. The increase in the second
quarter is below seasonal trends. That said, this represents our lowest third quarter repossession ratio on record.
Severity of $9,000 in the third quarter was up $900 from the same period a year-ago. $500 of the increase primarily
reflects higher amounts financed and higher balances at repossession offset partly by higher auction values. The
remainder reflects the change we referred to in the first quarter and noted on the slide. Quarter-over-quarter severity
increased $400.
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income
Page 3 of 8
Slide 5 shows the quarterly trend of the lease residual performance for our U.S. Ford and Lincoln brands. In the third
quarter, lease return volume and the return rate were down compared with the same period a year-ago, reflecting fewer
24-month versus 36-month lease placements in 2013 relative to 2012. Our auction values improved year-over-year and
were down quarter-over-quarter, consistent with the industry. Our worldwide net investment in operating leases was
$24.5 billion at the end of the third quarter, up $3 billion from year-end 2014.
With that, I'll turn it over to Neil.
Neil M. Schloss
Thanks, Marion, and good morning, everyone. Turning to Slide 6, we are on track to achieve our 2015 funding plan.
Year-to-date, we have issued about $25 billion. In the third quarter, we completed $7 billion of funding in the public
term markets consisting of about $4 billion of unsecured debt in the U.S., Canada, Europe and China and about $3
billion of public asset-backed debt in the U.S. and Canada.
We issued the industry's first Reg AB II compliant public retail securitization transaction for about a $1 billion, which
was very well received by investors. In China, our wholly-owned auto finance company issued its first unsecured
financial bond for RMB2 billion. We continue to broaden our funding tools in China, adding public unsecured issuance
to our established ABS program.
Ford Credit ended the quarter with net liquidity of about $25 billion. Our funding strategy remains focused on
diversification and we plan to continue accessing a variety of markets, channels and investors. We continue to target a
single A investment-grade profile.
Slide 7 shows our projected 2015 global public funding plan for Ford Credit excluding our short-term funding
programs. As I mentioned earlier, year-to-date, we have completed $25 billion of public-term funding in the U.S.,
Canada, Europe and China. We project full-year public-term funding in the range of $28 billion to $31 billion
consisting of $15 billion to $16 billion of unsecured debt and $13 billion to $15 billion of public securitizations.
Slide 8 shows the trends in funding of our managed receivables. At the end of the third quarter, managed receivables
were $122 billion and we ended the quarter with $9 billion in cash. Securitized funding was 39% of managed
receivables. We are projecting 2015 year-end managed receivables of $124 billion to $127 billion. We expect
securitized funding as a percent of managed receivables to be about 40%. We expect this percentage to decline over
time. Quarterly movements to this percentage reflects the calendarization of our funding plan.
Turning to Slide 9, we highlight Ford Credit's third quarter liquidity, which remains strong at $25.3 billion. Ford Credit
sources of liquidity include cash, committed asset backlines, unsecured credit facilities and the corporate revolver
allocation. As of September 30, liquidity sources including cash totaled $46.3 billion, down about $500 million from
second quarter. Ford Credit is focused on maintaining a strong liquidity position to meet its business and funding
requirements through economic cycles.
Now turning to the automotives section. Slide 10 shows that automotive debt was $12.8 billion at the end of the
quarter, $900 million lower than the second quarter. We ended the quarter with gross cash of $22.2 billion and
automotive liquidity of $33.2 billion, both up from the second quarter.
Now, let's close with a summary. We successfully completed 14 of our 16 new vehicle launches this year and that's on
top of the record 24 global launches completed in 2014. And even with the unprecedented number of new vehicles, our
quality remains strong, and is improving around the world. For the quarter, we made pre-tax profit of $2.7 billion, more
than double a year-ago. Net income also more than doubled to $1.9 billion.
Automotive operating margin came in at 6.5%, up 4 percentage points from a year-ago and we generated a third quarter
record with automotive operating-related cash flow at $2.8 billion. At the end of the quarter, automotive gross cash at
$22.2 billion and liquidity very strong at $33.2 billion.
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income
Page 4 of 8
Ford Credit had another strong quarter with receivables up $9 billion from a year-ago. As a result of this consistent
purchase policy and world-class servicing, Ford Credit's portfolio continues to perform extremely well. Credit loss –
losses continue to run at historic lows. Ford Credit has a diversified funding plan and strong liquidity in line with our
targets. Ford Credit is a strategic asset and integral to Ford's business. It supports sales, dealers and builds customer
satisfaction and loyalty, and delivers consistent profits for its strong business.
For the Company in 2015, we continue to expect North America to remain very strong, both in profits and substantial
top-line growth and with a margin at the upper half of the 8.5% to 9.5% range that we have guided to. It was an
outstanding third quarter for the Company with a record third-quarter pre-tax profit, higher wholesales, higher revenue,
higher market share and better margin, and we're firmly on track to deliver our breakthrough full-year.
And with that I'll turn it over to Steve to start the Q&A session.
Steve Dahle
Thanks, Neil. With that, we will start the question-and-answer session. Derrick, can we have the first caller, please?
Q&A
Operator
Certainly. And the first question in line will be Brian Jacoby from Goldman Sachs.
<Q - Brian J. Jacoby>: Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Just two questions, one more finance related and
the other just on the auto side. But just maybe to give a bigger picture view on the financing environment, just the
competitive environment around just the prime funding, are you seeing the banks still being very competitive and
availability of credit for consumers still quite strong? Or, there's been a little bit of chatter of around maybe some
pullback on the auto side at some of the bigger banks that are involved in auto financing. I'm just curious on what you
guys are seeing, how the landscape looks?
<A - Marion Harris>: Brian, this is Marion. The competitive environment is, I think pretty consistent with what we've
seen over the last couple of years. The industry is up, reflecting strong demand from consumers, and we've provided
very consistent originations through that. I think what we're seeing more than anything is growth in extended term
financing; that continues to get longer and longer in the industry. And it's something we're very focused on to ensure
that we're able to manage the trade cycle, build relationships with our customers and customer loyalty. That said, our
purchase policy has remained very, very consistent, and with that consistent policy we're able to deliver a portfolio that
performs very consistently.
<Q - Brian J. Jacoby>: And how much of your like more recent business is kind of on extended terms? I mean is there
-- can you give us a flavor roughly of...?
<A - Marion Harris>: Well, it depends a bit on your definition of extended term. The version we see is 73 months or
longer. We have a very small mix of that relative to others in the industry, particularly banks and credit unions. But for
us, that mix is only a couple of points of our originations, a couple of percentage points of our origination.
<Q - Brian J. Jacoby>: Okay. And then, thank you. The other question is just around the auto side, and in particular in
China. I mean it looks like, you are now -- you tweaked up – well, you didn't really tweak up, but you are using the
China volume of what $24 million now? And you alluded to on the earnings call that obviously some of the
government incentives there, and I guess on the tax side is helping, and you think car sales have hit bottom. So one
thing that I was a little surprised, though is your market share was flat, and from what I'm reading and hearing is that
SUV and CUV sales in China seem to be the one area that's still growing, and you guys have a very competitive line up
there. Just trying to get my arms around how to think about your share, and just your product offering, because I would
have thought you would have done a little bit better on the share, and maybe it's just a timing thing on products, I know
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income
Page 5 of 8
you were destocking somewhat in the quarter. But maybe if you can just share some thoughts on where the demand is
stronger in certain product categories? Clearly, car side has been weaker.
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Yes. So Brian, it's Stuart here. Well, our share in the quarter was equal to our prior record
of 4.7%. So it was a good share. Now, within that, you're right, in the industry we're seeing passenger cars including
SUVs somewhat stronger than commercial vehicles, and then within passenger SUV is stronger than sedan.
You rightly point out, we do have a strong line-up of SUVs and they've performed very well. We have the EcoSport,
we have the Kuga, and we have the Edge. In the third quarter, one of the factors that was in play was we were in
changeover of the Edge we previously imported. That vehicle as it built-up from North America and we are moving to
a locally produced three-row version of that product, and that is one of the products that was negatively impacted by
the supply constraint that we experienced during the quarter. So we probably could have done a little better on Edge
than we did, if we'd have had free supply. That issue, as we mentioned in the call, is now behind us. So we are in full
production on Edge
And then as we go into the fourth quarter, we also have the all new Everest -- the Ford Everest that's being built at our
JMC joint venture, that's also an SUV. We're building it in China and Thailand. And then as we go into the quarter, we
also launched the all new Taurus at our Hangzhou plant.
So, we've got a real strong availability of new product as we go into the fourth quarter and that's what is behind the --
very confident guidance that we provided for the fourth quarter and our guidance for the full-year as we improved in
the region compared to last year. So we feel very good about Asia-Pacific. The third quarter was negatively impacted
by the stock adjustment. We called the industry slowdown early, we called it in late second quarter, but the actual
adjustment production happened early in the third quarter. So our stocks are in a great position, our product line-up is in
a great position. We are building all of the products and we're looking forward to a good fourth quarter result.
<Q - Brian J. Jacoby>: Okay. Great. Thank you. That's it from me.
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Thanks, Brian.
Operator
The next question will be from the line of Eric Selle, SunTrust.
<Q - Eric Selle>: Hey. Good morning. And kind of dovetail some of Brian's questions, but Mark gave some really
good high color -- high level color on China talking about floor plan, traffic stabilizing. And I know you guys are
extremely dynamic over there growing both year distribution, as well as your manufacturing over there. And I guess
my question is twofold is, how do you assess a market is moving so faster, someone like you that's growing so fast, like
how do you -- what type of parameters are you using? Are you looking at Tier 1 markets, because they're somewhat
stabilized? What are you seeing on pricing and is there any interesting competitive behavior during this slowdown that
we have not really seen in the last 15 years?
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Well, Eric, thanks for the question. It's Stuart here again. So we use our creating value
roadmap process as you know, as a leadership team, we meet here every week. Our China and our Asia-Pacific teams
are part of that and we really focus on real-time availability of data and transparency, and we look to react quickly to
everything that we see in the market. So, I think, I'd be correct in saying that we were one of the first of the OEMs that
called the slowdown in the China industry. We saw that in late second quarter, and we talked about that on our second
quarter call. In the data we look at, we look at sales -- we look at -- we switch from wholesale reporting to retail
reporting, we manage, we monitor those retail sales by tier, region around the country, we monitor them by vehicle
type and by competitor. So we've seen the growth in the SUV segment. That has been very marked as we've gone into
-- gone through 2015, and we've adjusted production accordingly.
As we took the industry call down, as Bob mentioned we've moved that up slightly; that's in reaction to the sales tax
adjustment that the government has put in place in China; that applies to about 70% of our product offering in the
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income
Page 6 of 8
market. So we think we are well placed to benefit from that, and we expect the industry as a whole to benefit from it.
In terms of pricing, China industry pricing is negative, that's consistent with what we've experienced for many years
now. Our pricing is very much in line with the market. So we don't see anything particularly unique there. We do feel
very good about our stocks. Part of our plan for many years now has been to match production to real demand and
manage our inventory levels, and we got our inventory adjusted back to our target levels already by the end of August,
and that sets us up well going forward.
<Q - Eric Selle>: I think you guys did the same thing in 2013, in Europe, being the first ones to bring down your
stocks, and obviously it was a great reaction; you guys were the first ones coming out with volumes and pricing, so
that's great.
And Marion, we've heard about all these off lease volumes coming from the luxury side and from the Japanese side.
Are you guys seeing any -- and then obviously if you layer on the VW approach to the market, kind of having a dearth
in their products and having this diesel challenge. Have you seen any year-over-year differences in the leasing market?
Has it gotten more competitive as you've seen that roll-off of the off-lease volumes and Volkswagen's approach
somewhat changes given the headlines?
<A - Marion Harris>: Not really, Eric. The mix of leasing that we've done has been pretty consistent. It's in the low
20% range and it is up a bit year-over-year, but we're still well below the industry average, which is in the high-20%s.
But we haven't seen anything abnormal through auction or anything like that. In fact, auction prices are up
year-over-year -- and that's just a mix of what we're seeing in the business.
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: As you know, we use -- we have a One Ford lease strategy that we use, where we work
with Ford and Lincoln on the appropriate amount of leasing to do and we do it by vehicle line, mix, series and so forth
to ensure that we're supporting residual values, the brand and the right sales level.
<Q - Eric Selle>: And then, just one final question. You guys obviously have gone through a very heavy launch
cadence very smoothly, you're still generating a ton of cash. As you sit here at the end of the launch and look forward,
do you anticipate any change in your cash priorities, because it looks like you're set up just to gen cash and accumulate
it on the balance sheet going forward? And are there any movements upstairs on that priority?
<A - Neil M. Schloss>: Eric, this is Neil and I just would reiterate a consistent message that we did at Investor Day a
little over a year ago, from a standpoint of the shifting of priorities and less on the balance sheet, given the fact that our
debt is now down, our pensions are much better funded and more cash over time is provided to our shareholders. But I
think, first and foremost, priority one continues to be the business, making sure our products are funded, make sure
growth is funded, and a lot of the special technology initiatives that obviously are facing the industry and that we are
very excited about.
<Q - Eric Selle>: That's great. Hey, Neil and all the rest of you guys, great execution and I appreciate your time.
<A - Neil M. Schloss>: Great. Thanks.
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Thanks, Eric.
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Your next question will be from the line of Doug Karson, Bank of America.
<Q - Douglas Karson>: Thanks, guys. Good quarter. I had a question about the managed receivables and then one on
earnings and then one bigger picture. It looks like you guys are running around 39% of securitized funding as a
percentage of total managed, and is that the right level? I know historically agencies were hoping that would fall and
it's fallen from 44% in 2013 and close to 40% now. Does that make them happy enough or do they want to see that
even lower?
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income
Page 7 of 8
<A - Neil M. Schloss>: No. I think – this is Neil. And I think from the standpoint of overall, and if you look at the
long-term trend of that percentage, I think we would like to see that number come down further from where it is today.
The rating agencies obviously do as well. But I think we feel it's important to continue to build the stronger balance
sheet and by using unsecured debt to do that, and saving the securitization capacity is a smart and prudent thing for us
to do as we position ourselves, who knows when the next cycle is coming. And we like to have as much of our powder
available as we possibly can in bringing that number down, that's going to vary from quarter-to-quarter. Obviously, the
third quarter had a lot of market volatility to it, and so that's why you see a little uptick in that number using
securitization a little more, but over time we'd like to see that number come down and freeing up more assets that we
could sell in the future.
<Q - Douglas Karson>: That's helpful. Just a bigger picture question, probably one that you won't really be able to
answer. But I was just kind of looking at the ratings, and I guess time has kind of flown by, you've -- it looks like you
have been investment grade now by all the agencies for about two years, and the balance sheet has gotten a lot better
and the performance operationally has improved a lot. I mean have you had updated conversations with the rating
agencies regarding the low BBB?
<A - Marion Harris>: I think we -- nothing has changed this year from previous year from a standpoint that we do
have regular conversations with them. I think importantly not only the Ford Credit team but the senior leadership team
at Ford is very focused on continuing to make progress both on the operating side of our business, but also on the
balance sheet and the financing strategy. So I think we're operating this business. We still have a long-term objective to
get to a single A credit profile. We believe we've made a lot of progress in doing that. I think investors in the most
cases have given us a lot of credit, they talk with their feet from the standpoint of investing in our bonds which have
been very successfully executed. The rating agencies will come along when they decide it's the right time for them, but
in the meantime we're going to continue to execute what we think is right to get to a single A credit.
<Q - Douglas Karson>: That's great. And then finally at the beginning of the deck on Slide 2, you go over the pre-tax
results compared to last year, what was favorable and unfavorable, and the volume and mix, it looks like it was, if you
mean it right, $115 million favorable. Was that more leaning on the volume side or the mix side?
<A - Marion Harris>: That would ...
<Q - Douglas Karson>: Like I said, I have to form my estimates.
<A - Marion Harris>: This is Marion. It's predominantly volume.
<Q - Douglas Karson>: Okay. That's helpful.
<A - Marion Harris>: We were -- we're up quite a bit in receivables even exchange adjusted.
<Q - Douglas Karson>: Right. Right. A good quarter and that's it from me. I appreciate your time on the call.
<A - Marion Harris>: Thanks, Doug.
<A - Stuart John Rowley>: Great, Doug. Thank you.
Operator
And at this time, I'm showing no further questions in queue. I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr. Steve Dahle for
any closing remarks.
Steve Dahle
Thank you, Derrick. We would like to appreciate or thank everyone who participated in the call today, and thank you
for joining us. Good day.
Company Name: Ford
Company Ticker: F US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call - Fixed
Income
Page 8 of 8
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may now
disconnect. Have a great day.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.