Company Name: Twenty-First Century Fox
Company Ticker: FOXA US
Date: 2015-11-04
Event Description: Q1 2016 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 15
Q1 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• H. Reed Nolte
• Lachlan Keith Murdoch
• John P. Nallen
• James Rupert Murdoch
Other Participants
• Michael B. Nathanson
• Doug Mitchelson
• Rich S. Greenfield
• Michael C. Morris
• David Bank
• Benjamin Daniel Swinburne
• John Janedis
• Alexia S. Quadrani
• Todd Juenger
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the 21st Century Fox First Quarter 2016 Earnings
Release Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a
question-and-answer session. Instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this
conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Reed Nolte, Executive (sic) [Senior] Vice President,
Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
H. Reed Nolte
Thank you very much, Greg. Hello, everyone, and welcome to our first quarter fiscal 2016 earnings conference call. On
the call today are Lachlan Murdoch, Executive Chairman; James Murdoch, Chief Executive Officer; and John Nallen,
our Chief Financial Officer. First, we'll give some prepared remarks on the most recent quarter, then we'll be happy to
take questions from the investment community.
This call may include certain forward-looking information with respect to 21st Century Fox's business and strategy.
Actual results could differ materially from what is said. The company's Form 10-Q for the three months ended
September 30, 2015, identifies risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ and these statements are
qualified by the cautionary statements contained in such filings.
Additionally, this call will include certain non-GAAP financial measurements. The definition of and a reconciliation of
such measures can be found in our earnings release and our 10-Q filing. Finally, please note that certain financial
measures used in this call, such a segment operating income before depreciation and amortization, often referred to as
Company Name: Twenty-First Century Fox
Company Ticker: FOXA US
Date: 2015-11-04
Event Description: Q1 2016 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 15
EBITDA, and adjusted earnings per share are expressed on a non-GAAP basis. The GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation
of these non-GAAP measures is included our earnings release.
And with that, I'm pleased to turn it over to Lachlan.
Lachlan Keith Murdoch
Thank you very much, Reed, and good morning, everyone, and good afternoon to those of you who might be in
different time zones. I'm pleased to join you today from Los Angeles to report our first fiscal quarter earnings. I'm
going to make a few comments, then turn the call over John and James who are both in London.
We've made good progress this quarter. Our performance underscores the strength of our business and the durability of
the growth strategies we have pursued over the last number of years and continue to do so. But even with progress, we
are all united in the view that this is a time of transformative change in our industry. It's the kind of change that
demands equal measures of clear thinking and of calculated risk-taking. In this quarter, we've applied both to good
effect.
There are some essential points that must be considered. While demand for the type of high-quality storytelling, news
and live sport that we produce continues to grow, our viewers are increasingly choosing when and how they experience
our programming. Live viewing of television is contracting as a percentage of total viewing, especially in the younger
demographics coveted by advertisers.
The definition of rating success has evolved from overnight ratings to three-day and seven-day ratings to more
accurately reflect how programming is being consumed, and it will need to evolve further. Take for example, the
season two premiere of our breakout hit, Empire. It reached nearly 12 million total viewers in live plus same day; a
great number. But that figure more than doubles to 25 million when we look at 30-day multi-platform viewing.
We see similar lifts across our networks when we look at actual consumption across the spectrum of viewing when
compared to the current live plus three-day industry standard. Using Nielsen live plus seven day ratings, the Fox
Network is up a couple of percent year-over-year, and excluding sports, we are up almost 10%. But that tells only half
of the picture.
Our Fox Networks' average non-linear audience has risen by about a third year-over-year. It's a testament to the fact
that premium broadcast content is in more demand than ever, but it also illustrates the need for the industry to move to
modern ratings currency that reflects today's consumption of media in a way that is highly measurable and relevant to
advertisers.
Driving part of this change is without doubt the emergence of over-the-top services such as Hulu and Netflix. Another
byproduct of these services is clearly the maturing of the traditional large cable bundle. But we see this trend as having
less impact on Fox as a group than perhaps on others, that's because our key U.S. brands, Fox, Fox News, Fox Sports,
National Geographic and the FX Suite are in great demand, due in large part to years of significant programming and
marketing investment. In fact, this quarter's results reflect increases in our aggregate number of U.S. domestic
subscribers compared to a year-ago of over 1%, with subscriber additions at our younger, less distributed channels
more than offsetting the overall 1% to 2% declines, impacting the overall industry. And internationally, we also
continue to see subscription growth and are benefiting from demographic trends and pay television gains in
high-growth markets.
Overall, we feel exceptionally well positioned, with robust demand for our quality programming, leadership across
entertainment, sports and news, and enhanced digital product focus and strong brands that we have made a focus of our
investment. We look forward to continuing to make strides against our strategic plan to continue to return real value to
our shareholders over the remainder of this fiscal period and beyond.
And with that, I'll now hand over to John and James in London for their comments and for questions.
Company Name: Twenty-First Century Fox
Company Ticker: FOXA US
Date: 2015-11-04
Event Description: Q1 2016 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 15
John P. Nallen
Thanks, Lachlan. It's John, and good morning, everyone. Starting off, I'll remind you that because of the sale of our
DBS businesses to Sky last November, our reported financial results for the first quarter are not like-to-like. So as
we've done in the past, we're providing total company adjusted revenue and adjusted EBITDA, which excludes the
DBS businesses in the prior-year period. Most of my comments that follow will be on this adjusted basis.
So first quarter adjusted revenues decreased by $406 million to $6.1 billion as continued revenue growth in the Cable
Network segment was more than offset by lower revenue at the Film segment. Note that the absence of Shine and
overall adverse foreign currency movements, each negatively impacted quarterly revenues by approximately $200
million. Together, these approximate the total year-over-year quarterly revenue decline.
Total segment adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter was $1.54 billion, a $37 million decrease from a year ago. This
decline reflects double-digit growth at the Cable Networks and Television segments, which were more than offset by
lower contributions at the Film segment. This year's results include slightly more than a $100 million negative impact
from unfavorable foreign currency movement. Absent this impact, our overall growth rate would be 5%.
From a bottom-line perspective, we reported income from continuing operations attributable to stockholders of $678
million, or $0.34 per share. Excluding the net income effects in both years of other net and of equity earnings
adjustments primarily related to Sky's acquisitions and dispositions, first quarter adjusted EPS was $0.38 this year,
down $0.01 from the comparable $0.39 a year ago. And overall, with this first quarter now completed, we're holding to
the financial guidance expectations we provided to you at our last call.
So now let me provide some additional comments on the performance at our operating segments for the first quarter.
And let's start with the Cable Networks, where total segment EBITDA of $1.31 billion was up 26% on segment
revenue growth of 7%. Domestic revenues increased 10% in the aggregate, led by affiliate fee growth of 11% and
advertising increases of 4%. EBITDA at our domestic channels increased 19% over the prior year, reflecting these
higher revenues in conjunction with total cost increases of only 4%, led by lower costs at the FX channels.
First quarter reported international affiliate fee and ad revenues were both essentially even with last year. However,
excluding the effects of foreign exchange, local currency affiliate fees and advertising revenues were each up around
10%.
Reported international channel EBITDA contributions increased over 50%, even after reflecting an approximate $60
million negative impact from foreign exchange. This reported growth was largely due to lower sports programming
costs at STAR Sports from the absence of last year's India-England cricket series. Elsewhere, double-digit local
currency EBITDA growth at the STAR entertainment channels and at the Fox International Channels were essentially
offset by the negative impact from foreign currency, principally from Latin America and from Europe.
Turning to our Television segment, first quarter EBITDA was $196 million, 13% higher than prior year results. This
improvement largely reflects continued strong retransmission consent revenue growth and lower programming
expenses at the Fox Broadcast Network and stations, which were partially offset by a 5% decline in segment
advertising revenues. This advertising decline reflects the expected impact of one less week of the NFL due to a later
regular season start, which we get back in the third quarter and lower political ad revenues at the stations due to the
mid-term elections in the prior year.
At the Film segment, we reported first quarter EBITDA of $149 million, $309 million below last year. This decline was
primarily driven by challenging comparisons to the prior year, which included significant contributions from the
theatrical release of Dawn of the Planet of the Apes and the home entertainment release of Rio 2 compared to reduced
theatrical contributions this year that included the underperformance of Fantastic Four. This quarter was also impacted
by the inclusion of significant pre-releasing costs in advance of the successful October theatrical release of The
Martian.
Our TV production contributions were also lower in the quarter, primarily due to lower cable syndication revenues
owing to last year's sale of How I Met Your Mother. Overall, revenues of the Film segment decreased by 28%, with
Company Name: Twenty-First Century Fox
Company Ticker: FOXA US
Date: 2015-11-04
Event Description: Q1 2016 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 15
close to half of this decline reflecting both the absence of revenues from Shine, which we merged with Endemol last
December, and foreign currency movement.
Shifting over to our buyback activity since July 1 through today, we've repurchased approximately $2.1 billion of Fox
A shares, and we're on plan to complete the authorized $5 billion buyback within the 12-month timeframe that we've
previously announced. Subsequent to quarter end, we issued $1 billion in long-term debt and we repaid $200 million of
maturities with approximately $500 million in further maturities over the next year.
With regards to financial guidance, as I said earlier, with one quarter under our belt, we're holding to the expectations
we gave you three months ago. Specifically, we continue to anticipate a total company segment EBITDA percentage
growth rate for fiscal 2016 to be in the mid-single digit range, above the $6.49 billion we reported for fiscal 2015; that
number excludes the impact of the DBS segment contributions.
Foreign currencies have clearly weakened since our August call, and this volatility continues to be a risk to keep an eye
on as the year goes forward, but our underlying business operating trends have generally been progressing as expected
in the aggregate.
As you know, when 21st Century Fox was formed in 2013, we provided our three-year goals, our guidance, and have
updated you on those in each of the years in that cycle. As we look to the end of that three-year period, upon the
completion of this fiscal year, I'd like to touch on our approach to financial guidance going forward.
Looking back, the three years had ups and downs, led by currency impacts, which absorbed hundreds of millions of
growth dollars, and had structural changes to our portfolio of businesses. But through that period, we have been and
will continue to be transparent and direct about the trends we are seeing and their impact on our outlook. We are very
confident in our ability to execute against the opportunities we have ahead to sustain long-term growth, but we don't
want to chase a short-term target through changes in our operating plan, merely because a currency rate changes, a
movie release shifts or underperforms, or we modify our approach to SVOD licensing. It's not good for our
management team, and it's not good for our shareholders.
So beginning with fiscal 2017, we will modify our approach to financial guidance to eliminate our emphasis on a
specific dollar annual earnings target. Instead, we'll provide you with quantitative and qualitative information on those
key areas where we have good visibility and on the trends and initiatives in our businesses. We'll also provide insight
into where we'll be focusing our resources to maximize opportunity through both organic innovation and through
investment. And of course, we'll also continue to provide details around our annual capital allocation plan and our
targets.
Now let me turn it over to James.
James Rupert Murdoch
Thanks very much, John and thanks, Lachlan, and good morning, everyone and thank you all for joining us. As you've
heard from Lachlan and John, the investments we've been making in our core brands in all our key markets are
progressing and producing returns, and we continue to push the pace of these initiatives as we see meaningful
opportunity ahead of us. On the short-term front, as you heard from John's review, we continue to make progress
against the fiscal 2016 financial objectives. We expect strong growth in our core cable franchises, promising forward
movement in our TV broadcast segment, offset by some currency headwinds and short-term performance in the Film
business, which as you know we measure over a longer period, as results can be lumpy due to timings and individual
pictures' performance.
We also continue to execute on our key strategic priorities, specifically, to create compelling and unique storytelling, to
enhance the customer experience of our digital video brands and to leverage our leadership positions in developing
markets where we see the greatest opportunities, particularly India and Latin America. So we've seen good momentum
in our domestic cable portfolio, where our overall EBITDA growth is up 19% versus a year ago. This growth, led by
revenue gains, is a clear result of the investments we've made and the work the team has done and continue to do to
Company Name: Twenty-First Century Fox
Company Ticker: FOXA US
Date: 2015-11-04
Event Description: Q1 2016 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 15
bolster the customer offerings of our core brands. It also reflects increases in our aggregate number of domestic
subscribers compared to a year ago of over 1%.
Looking forward, as Lachlan noted, we anticipate that some of the conversations we're having with new streaming
distribution services not yet to market, will result in new revenue that will augment existing viewing alternatives.
Now I'd like to update you on the progress we're making at a few of our key brands. Our domestic sports business
continued to deliver and has increasingly become a critical component for distributors. In aggregate, our brands
currently provide more than 25% of all sports viewing in the U.S., national and local combined. I know there's been
some recent attention on the potential disruption from the digital distribution of sports. Last week, Yahoo! and the NFL
announced that they had 33.6 million streams or 15.2 million unique views on their NFL web stream game. But when
digital numbers are put on a comparable basis with TV ratings, Yahoo! delivered an average 1.6 million U.S. viewers
per minute. That same day, on average, 18 million viewers per minute were watching the NFL on Fox.
FS1 is making real headway as well and is on or above plan by pretty much all metrics. Over the past quarter, we
strengthened our audience engagement, extending last spring's successes from the broadcast of the Women's World
Cup and U.S. Open Golf with strong MLB regular and post-season events. Nationally, regular-season baseball
viewership on FBC and FS1 increased 16% and 22%, respectively, over last year's level. As a New Yorker and as a
broadcaster, I'm disappointed of course with the World Series finishing in five games. But unfortunately, there's no
changing that now. But even with fewer games, this year's World Series averaged close to 15 million viewers, more
than last year's full seven-game performance, and ranks as the best five-game average since 2009, when the Yankees
beat the Phillies in six games.
Locally, our regional sports networks are a commanding presence, as demonstrated by our regular-season baseball
telecasts on the RSNs, with 13 out of our 15 teams ranking at or near the top of local primetime ratings. And this year's
World Series champions, the Kansas City Royals, carried on Fox Sports Midwest, scored the highest regular-season
local TV ratings of any RSN in 13 years. We look forward to welcoming them in all our RSN MLB teams back for
spring training. What's clear from this is that our sports brands are a fundamental differentiator for 21CF and they'll
continue to deliver returns for years to come.
At the FX suite of channels, we continue to deliver exciting new originals to audiences everywhere. In particular, the
American Horror Story franchise continues to be a ratings and critical phenomenon. It won five Emmy awards in
September, and more recently, its fifth installment debuted as the second most watched telecast in FX Networks'
history in the key 18 to 49 demo, and the premiere has reached more than 15 million total viewers to date across all
platforms.
The reception that Fargo is getting in its sophomore outing is also very encouraging, and I encourage all of you to
watch the show. It's really one of the best and most exciting pieces of storytelling on air anywhere. We look forward to
calendar 2016 as well with some truly great new and returning shows, including Ryan Murphy's American Crime
Story, the People versus O.J. Simpson, and the Americans on FX and It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia on FXX. Fox
News continues to go from strength to strength. The August GOP debate delivered a record 24 million total viewers,
making it the number one highest-rated non-sports cable telecast of all time. This summer, Fox News was the number
one channel across all of basic cable for five consecutive weeks.
The Kelly File and Hannity both reached ratings highs this past quarter, since debuting their current time slots. And the
new Fox Business schedule is gaining momentum, and the channel is hosting another Republican debate on November
10. And we think it's really a great opportunity to showcase and differentiate FOX Business in terms of depth and
quality and production.
Outside of the U.S., our channels have continued their growth trajectory. At STAR, the entertainment channels
generated double-digit revenue and profit increases on the strength of original programming. STAR Sports Pro Kabaddi
Season Two continued a successful run with strong ratings growth. And we expect the business to make meaningful
profit progress this year, in line with the goals we've discussed with you in the past. The Fox International Channels,
even with some regional economic headwinds, grew its unique paying subscribers by 13% over year-ago levels, now
Company Name: Twenty-First Century Fox
Company Ticker: FOXA US
Date: 2015-11-04
Event Description: Q1 2016 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 15
approaching $300 million, while also delivering double-digit local currency revenue and profit growth.
More broadly, we're working hard to build on the strength of our brand portfolio. A few months ago, we announced the
agreement to expand our successful joint venture with the National Geographic Society. Our plans to form National
Geographic Partners, which combines the National Geographic Society's branded media assets, including one of the
most recognized and respected magazines in the world and a substantial digital footprint, with the National Geographic
channels, among the most widely distributed television services globally, is an enormous opportunity for the company.
The new limited-run series Breakthrough, which brings to life scientific and technological discovery to some of the
biggest names in film, including Ron Howard, Brian Grazer and Brett Ratner, exemplifies the kind of storytelling that
is unique to National Geographic. Combining all of these consumer-facing assets into one entity will greater
opportunities to leverage one of the world's most recognized and treasured brands, especially in a non-linear world. The
integration planning and implementation is moving along and we are on track to close the transaction in the next few
weeks.
Turning to our U.S. broadcast business, trends this fall season are encouraging. While still early, we're seeing positive
results, driven by new programming and our investment in our returning shows. We're happy with the performance of
Empire in its second outing, the show really is a phenomenon, and it's one borne out of our desire to support storytellers
and our appetite for taking creative risks. Beyond Empire, Fox has a number of new series that have provided
significant gains year-over-year for us. Rosewood, Scream Queens, Grandfathered and The Grinder have driven
percentage increases anywhere from 21% to 78% compared to the same time slots last year. It's fair to say that Minority
Report has been a disappointment, and we've shortened the series order and expect to have new programming in the
second half. While last year is not the benchmark we would aspire to measure against, nonetheless, total viewership
growth, live, multi-platform, and time-shifted to date, is up 10% year-on-year.
As with every fall broadcast season, a lot of attention is paid to the overnight ratings reports that measure the linear
viewership of the new series premieres, and we're focusing, as Lachlan said, more on total viewership and driving
overall consumption on a multi-platform, multi-day basis. The Fox Network is unique in that it attracts the youngest
audience of any major broadcast network. Perhaps more than any other network we're seeing significant audience
growth from multi-platform viewing and from extended C3 and C7 viewing. For example, in addition to the Empire
30-day numbers, which Lachlan talked about, Scream Queens more than doubles its live audience, over 130%, when
including viewership across all platforms. We're seeing similar numbers for other shows. And in fact, more than 50%
of our ad inventory is now sold in the C7 window.
It's true that much of this viewership is monetized today at a lower level than what we would like, and as I've said
before, the important thing is to grow the audience, and our capabilities with respect to selling that audience are
improving. We're on track to grow our non-linear ad revenue by around 40% this fiscal. This includes inventory across
Hulu, VOD, FX Now, Fox Now, Fox Sports-To-Go and Fox Sports Digital. We think it's important to create and
distribute together, and I am pleased that approximately 70% of our new primetime shows are from our own studio,
Twentieth Century Fox Television, up from about 50% last year. The full lifetime value of these assets is something
we're very focused on.
TCF TV and its subsidiaries continue to benefit from the overall strong demand for scripted programming, producing
36 series for 12 networks this season. While a little more than half of these series, 64%, are supporting Fox channels,
we continue to be a major provider of shows to others, with hit series such as Homeland, Modern Family and Fresh Off
the Boat. Quality storytelling has never been more in demand.
Moving to the film studio, first quarter film earnings were well below a year ago, reflecting release timing and the lack
of a major successful release. However, the recent success of The Martian and a very solid slate of upcoming pictures
gives us some comfort here. Looking ahead, we're bringing Charlie Brown to the big screen this weekend with The
Peanuts Movie, and we then have the next installment of the very successful Alvin and the Chipmunks franchise in
December, and the holiday release of Joy, which reunites Jennifer Lawrence with David O. Russell once again. Also in
December, The Revenant with Leonardo DiCaprio and a wonderful film by Alejandro Iñárritu, the very promising
Deadpool this February, and we then wrap up the fiscal year with two big global franchises with X-Men: Apocalypse
Company Name: Twenty-First Century Fox
Company Ticker: FOXA US
Date: 2015-11-04
Event Description: Q1 2016 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 15
and the long-awaited sequel, Independence Day: Resurgence.
And looking a little further ahead, we'll also be releasing franchise extensions for Ice Age in the summer of 2016,
Planet of the Apes, Aliens, Maze Runner, Kingsman, and of course, Avatar over the next few years.
It's worth noting that the film industry is gaining strength. The calendar year-to-date consumer spending on digital
home entertainment, up mid-teens for the industry and a bit higher for us.
We're making progress as well in our non-consolidated businesses. The combination of the three Sky businesses is
producing strong results, and together, these businesses are thriving, adding around 1 million paid for subscription
products this quarter and achieving the best overall UK sub growth we've seen in four years, in addition to strong
customer growth in Germany and steady performance in Italy. Sky is truly setting the pace in digital television across
Europe.
Hulu continues to grow both subscribers and engagement aggressively. Year-to-date through September, total viewing
at Hulu is up 85% versus prior-year, and net subscriber additions are up more than 60%.
And at Endemol Shine Group, our joint venture with Apollo continues to deliver high-quality programming globally,
with non-scripted content such as Hunted being picked up by CBS in the U.S. and new scripted programming such as
The Frankenstein Chronicles pre-selling extremely well. Established titles such as Big Brother are traveling further than
ever before with a pilot series due to air in China for the first time this fall. So while there is still much do, we feel good
about the progress in the company overall and about where we're headed.
So with that, we'll hand it over to all of you for any questions you might have. Reed?
H. Reed Nolte
Greg, now we'd be happy to take questions from the investment community.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Nathanson from
MoffettNathanson. Please go ahead.
<Q - Michael B. Nathanson>: Thanks. I'll ask one to John on costs. John, you said that domestic cost growth was 4%,
and that's the lowest we've seen in years. Is that a decent run rate for the fiscal year, or are there any timing issues that
we should be aware of for the three quarters?
<A - John P. Nallen>: Thanks, Michael. I think if you reflect back on what we said – what I said at year end, we
expect the Cable segment expense growth rate to moderate very significantly this year, and it will be down to about
half the rate of growth that we experienced in the last two years. In those two years, it was up around the mid-teens. So,
there's nothing that's changed in the three months that would cause us to change that outlook either.
<Q - Michael B. Nathanson>: Okay. My one other cost question is internationally, can you help us differentiate
between the cost growth organically at STAR versus FIC, because there's so many moving pieces you have going on.
So what's the underlying cost growth for those two businesses?
<A - John P. Nallen>: I don't want to be so precise to go down to channel levels, but what I called out and I think
James called out and we called out in the earnings release is we did have a significant decline focused on STAR Sports
because of the absence of the cost of that cricket series. So, the most dramatic decline internationally would've been in
STAR Sports, right in line with what we were expecting.
<Q - Michael B. Nathanson>: Okay. Thanks, John.
Company Name: Twenty-First Century Fox
Company Ticker: FOXA US
Date: 2015-11-04
Event Description: Q1 2016 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 15
<A - H. Reed Nolte>: Thanks, Michael. Gregory, next question please?
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Mitchelson from UBS. Please go ahead.
<Q - Doug Mitchelson>: Thanks so much. Lachlan mentioned transformative change, and I think investors are trying
to understand the pace of that change and how aggressively you might invest against that imperative. And I'd note that
John mentioned changing approach to SVOD licensing as potentially one of the items that could impact growth in the
future. At the same time, last quarter you talked about some of the growth drivers for fiscal 2017. Can you help
investors understand over the last few months anything new in terms of your philosophy about how you're balancing
driving growth after a three-year investment cycle versus the need to invest in digital going forward? Thank you.
<A - James Rupert Murdoch>: Thanks very much, Doug. I think, as Lachlan mentioned, it is a time of change as we
all know in the business. But I think when we look at the present state of the business with respect to the growth that
we're seeing and really IP streaming video consumption, this is something that we're very excited about and we have
been pretty aggressive about trying to create growth there, investing in our capability with respect to monetizing that
viewership and doing it in a better way, developing new products for customers. As well as with partners, for example,
at our Hulu partnership, growing that business very aggressively and seeing very good results at this point.
So I think when we think about investing in these areas, you've already seen a lot of that in the sort of numbers and
within our kind of inorganic – within our organic internal investments, as we think about how we make programming,
what rights we seek to control, and then how we want to sell those things. With respect to specific decisions around
windowing SVOD partners, how we're exploiting programming across the full lifetime of the programming. Those are
things that continually evolve, and I think it's really important for us to be able to be disruptive in those areas. I think
it's important for us not to cling to business rules that inevitably change and have been changing over the last number of
decades, living in a business and an industry that's been characterized more than anything else by really wave after
wave of technological change that fundamentally creates better products for customers, creates more competition
downstream, and we think in that environment we've always been best served to be able to innovate and disrupt
ourselves. So, I think with respect to how we think about investment, I don't want to get into sort of a backdoor way
into 2017 guidance. But I would say that we look at the sorts of things we've been doing around growing our capability,
as well as licensing to new entrants in the marketplace on the right business terms, and also increasing the business that
we do with many of our existing partners who distribute our content. These are the sorts of things we're focused on and
I think you'll see more activity with respect to that as those agreements are concluded and adjusted and as we find new
ways to distribute the product going forward over the next year.
<Q - Doug Mitchelson>: All right. I tried. Thank you.
<A - H. Reed Nolte>: Thanks, Doug. Gregory, next question please?
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Greenfield from BTIG. Please go ahead.
<Q - Rich S. Greenfield>: Hi. Thanks for taking the question. This is really more of a follow-up on just kind of broad
picture thinking on the SVOD topic. Why not, as you think about it, why not actually start building your own
direct-to-consumer service? I know you've talked about it for a long time, but wondering, you continue to license
content to Hulu, among other platforms. I guess, big picture, why Hulu, especially now that Hulu has an ad-free option,
why is Hulu better than licensing to Netflix or to Amazon, and why did you allow Hulu to do an ad-free option? I guess
I'm curious why that was something the partnership wanted.
Company Name: Twenty-First Century Fox
Company Ticker: FOXA US
Date: 2015-11-04
Event Description: Q1 2016 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 15
<A - James Rupert Murdoch>: Thanks, Rich, for the question. I guess just to step back a little bit, I mean, first of all,
I think as I said earlier, we believe very strongly in Hulu and in Hulu's prospects. And as I said just a second ago in
response to Doug's question, it's really crucial that we don't become overly beholden to our own incumbency. And I
think that's a real, for any business that's trying to move fast and trying to grow, that's a real danger that one has to be
very alive to, and we have to be willing to take some risk, but also to be innovative and to be disruptive.
And I think, as you know, as leaders of the business, and I think I speak for all of the leaders within the business, which
is all the way through the business, because everybody has a responsibility to lead, we have to be disruptors if we're
going to grow. So when we look at growing the IP streaming, our growing kind of business in IP streaming in the
future, we're pretty excited about the innovation that we can bring to that marketplace, and we're working hard across
the board, both internally when we think about developing our authenticated apps, potentially direct-to-consumer
offerings, some of our competitors have been out there with those. We haven't done that yet here, but for example in
India with Hotstar, we've been very aggressive in building out a mobile video platform that we control and that we
reach customers with directly, and we're working hard within Hulu as well to both grow the business absolutely, but
also to grow the offerings of the business, and we're really excited about our progress there.
With respect your question about ads, we're also really pleased with the progress we're making with respect to sort of
add innovation, both with premium ad-free services, which Hulu announced and launched, but also with expanding the
opt-in engagement advertising that we've talked about in the past to the Hulu platform, which we just announced
yesterday. And that's in addition to our own authenticated app services.
So fundamentally, in advertising, these innovations are about empowering the audience to decide the value of their
attention, and that makes sense to them, and it also makes a lot of sense to us, and we think pricing models around
attention are going to be developing, and we want to be at the forefront of developing those and understanding how
those work and how we can create the best return. And the scale of the Hulu inventory there and the scale of the Hulu
audience is a great place to be innovating in that regard and they've been really embracing that.
<Q - Rich S. Greenfield>: And you mentioned – I think you mentioned that Hulu subs are up 60% year-over-year – in
terms of net ads are up 60%, which is an impressive number. How much is the, I know it's very recent times, but how
significant is the ad-free product driving incremental subscribers?
<A - James Rupert Murdoch>: Look, they – Hulu hasn't disclosed those numbers at this point. I think I'll leave it to
them, and obviously, in the spring with the upfronts, there's going to be a lot of attention to that. But the growth is
good, and we're – I think I would say we're, at this point, pretty comfortable with the mix of growth in terms of ad-free
versus ad-supported. And look, I think our commitment to Hulu is self-evident. We've invested a lot in it. We continue
to license to it where it makes the most sense for our creative partners and us to do so. But also we want to grow our
[ph] app (36:22) distribution as well, and I think we're seeking to license rights to distributors of all kinds if it's on the
right terms.
And I think the other thing that's changing, and maybe this is maybe to the heart of your question is that the SVOD
licensing business itself is changing pretty quickly and there's also the surprising new approaches and new ways, I
think, that we can provide a great service to customers that you'll see over the next little while.
So I'd just say, in that environment of all of that going on, I think our opportunities do lie in leaning in and being
disruptive ourselves and not being afraid of that. And look, I think it's consistent with the way we've managed and the
way the business has grown over many, many years from disrupting the U.S. broadcast business with Fox Broadcasting
so many years ago, to disrupting the European television business with the three different Skys and disrupting
advertising and the broadcast business today with Hulu and other things over the current period and the next few years,
I think is a real opportunity to create enormous value. So look, I think that's one of the most important sort of cultural
traits in our business, and it's one that we're going to continue to encourage and nurture because I think it has to exist
everywhere in this company.
<A - H. Reed Nolte>: Thank you, Rich. Greg, can we have next question please?
Company Name: Twenty-First Century Fox
Company Ticker: FOXA US
Date: 2015-11-04
Event Description: Q1 2016 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 15
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Morris from Guggenheim Partners. Please go ahead.
<Q - Michael C. Morris>: Great. Thanks. Good morning, guys. One follow-up on Hulu, and really just understanding
your comfort with the price of the product relative to the utility, given that it's really become a great consumer product
and a robust product. At $12, it feels like it could potentially be cannibalistic to your existing business model. So how
do you get comfort, number one, that you're not, in fact, leading yourselves down a path of cannibalism, and two,
maybe what you're looking for, what levers you could pull to both deliver that quality experience but also your protect
your economics? And then just one quick housekeeping; is there anything on the domestic affiliate revenue side that's
seasonal in terms of puts and takes or is that number continuing to be pretty steady with respect to absolute dollar and
growth? Thanks.
<A - James Rupert Murdoch>: Thanks very much, Michael. Look, just to clarify on Hulu, I think one of the things
it's important to note is that the current – the way the business looks today with all of the different services and
subscription video on demand as well as the MVPD marketplace, all of these services are going to change, and I think
you've seen competitors take pricing, you've seen new tiers and new products emerge, and I think it's important to note,
this is not necessarily a steady-state. In fact, it's one of pretty rapid evolution and innovation. So, I think with respect to
the ad-free pricing at Hulu and the delta between the ad supported and the ad-free, as you would imagine, that was a
source of robust debate. But at the end of the day, the businesses had to move forward and try, and we're learning a lot
from that.
And I think pricing may change, but also as a mentioned before, we're very focused on thinking about how can these
services also expand their offerings and create new price points with new content or other things in them? So I think
that's going to evolve, and I wouldn't necessarily say it's a steady state today. With respect to cannibalization,
cannibalism, I'll refrain from commenting on. I think it's inevitable that new services and new competition both grow
the overall market, but also impact customers to other services. And we're very focused on how do we think about
monetization in that environment and how do we make sure that overall when we look at the whole business our
approach to growing the streaming business very aggressively is one that's going to be more attractive for us.
And personally I think, over time, it's not necessarily a straight line, I think over time, the streaming entertainment
business and streaming television business is much more attractive with opportunities for innovation in terms of ad
loads, ad pricing, subscription pricing, premium ad-free models, as well as the discoverability of our programming
across, you know, for customers, it's just a very attractive – you've got a very attractive set of attributes for customers
and I think for our business as well. But it's pretty early days in terms of finding all of the different ways that we can
move it forward and we can innovate there. And your second question...
<A - John P. Nallen>: As a housekeeping point, Michael, the question on the affiliate fees. So we said at the beginning
of the year, like on Michael's question, that we would have low double-digit affiliate fee growth for the year and I'd be
led by the U.S., this is right in line with that. So there's nothing unusually seasonal about the growth we experienced in
the quarter against what we expect to happen for the year.
<A - James Rupert Murdoch>: Yes.
<Q - Michael C. Morris>: Great. Thank you.
<A - H. Reed Nolte>: Greg, can we have next question please?
Operator
Next question comes from the line of David Bank from RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.
<Q - David Bank>: Okay. Thank you very much. I want to actually follow up on the answer to your last question
regarding innovation, in particular, James. You guys have always been ahead of the curve on giving us some really
Company Name: Twenty-First Century Fox
Company Ticker: FOXA US
Date: 2015-11-04
Event Description: Q1 2016 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 15
useful color around viewership, around non-traditional platforms. You did more so today. I'm trying to figure out how
we can use them to model the business. So if I go back to something I think you guys said, total viewership on Fox
Broadcasting Network was up like 10%. Can you remind us how much of that was in the traditional C3, C7 window,
whatever the Nielsen window you sold it in? And then can you give us what the viewership was outside that window
and remind us of what the monetization of that viewership is, or at least give us a sense of what the potential upside of
the monetization is, given that you know what the audience is and you must have a sense of where you can monetize it
over time?
Then lastly, Lachlan talked about the growth in non-linear viewership. What are you doing with the data? You must be
coming up with some pretty interesting data from the growth in this non-linear viewership that I would imagine is
extremely valuable in both monetization and devising a strategy for building your business going forward. How do you
think about the data? Thanks very much.
<A - James Rupert Murdoch>: Thanks very much, David. So, with respect to the breakdown, so first of all, it is more
complicated, right, so when you said, can we help you with modeling how all that works, I was thinking to myself, yes,
maybe you can help us modeling how it works. What's complicated about it, and it really, I think it illustrates the point
around measurement systems evolving, that Lachlan made earlier, which is that what we're really focused on is what
was our total audience last night and the day before and last week? And that was made up of customers and viewers
watching live things, things a day old, things four days old, things 30 days old, and in some cases, things many months
old.
And what you want to really do is get a picture of that overall viewership and it's not easy to come by and it lags
because the measurement systems and all of those things don't always synch up when we don't get those numbers in the
most timely ways that we would like. So the total picture of the audience is more complex. That said, just to break it
down a little bit for you, in the season to-date, the live viewing, as I mentioned before, was just under half, right? So
50% was more than that and so it's about, I think live viewing was about 40%, high 40s percentage there.
And then Hulu made up sort of in the teens, and the balance was, VOD, a very small amount for our authenticated apps,
which we're working on authentication pathways and stuff to improve there, and some time shifting on DVR. So the
balance is definitely moving towards obviously time shifted and on-demand. And from a sales point of view, about half
of our inventory was sold on a C7 basis in the period.
So, that's sort of where that breaks down, but it is something that's really evolving. And I think when we think about
how we instrument the business going forward and how we measure the business and then deal with advertisers and all
of our clients and customers on that, those are things that are going to continue to evolve. But we're very focused on the
total audience in a given time period, and then we build that up. So when we said to you that total audience was up 10%
in the season to-date, entertainment programming, that really was the accumulated viewership, literally on a per minute
basis relative to the previous year. And a lot of that was driven by the growth in seven-day and 30-day viewership
there. And look, we think that it's really, really encouraging that the audience is moving towards these on-demand
platforms, in particular where they are moving towards Hulu, where we can really innovate and monetize that audience.
And with respect to your second question just on data, you're right, it's very interesting. And we are – it is very early
days because the consumption curve is pretty dramatic. And that's something that we're really using today to
understand both how we use our air better in terms of promo inventory, sales inventory, et cetera, how we understand
how customers move between different shows and different platforms. But there are also gaps in that data, obviously
working with third-party partners but that is a big focus for us, and we think it's one of the – data opportunity is one of
the great characteristics of an IP streaming TV business in the future is the ability to have that data, the ability to use
that to improve your products and services and monetize the viewership and the audience in the right way with respect
to pricing, the attention of the audience correctly either for them or for advertisers.
<A - H. Reed Nolte>: Thank you, David.
<Q - David Bank>: Thank you.
<A - H. Reed Nolte>: Greg, can we have next question please?
Company Name: Twenty-First Century Fox
Company Ticker: FOXA US
Date: 2015-11-04
Event Description: Q1 2016 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 15
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Swinburne from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
<Q - Benjamin Daniel Swinburne>: Thanks. Just two quick ones. Hopefully quick. John, last quarter you gave some
assumptions around the guidance, particularly on advertising, that TV, I think you said would be flattish, cable, or
domestic cable, up mid-to-high single digits. Is that still your expectation after a quarter?
<A - John P. Nallen>: Yes. It is early days. We're three months into it. Obviously, a lot of the network programming is
still ahead of us. But at this point, we are still in that zone.
<Q - Benjamin Daniel Swinburne>: Great. And then just James, bringing the conversation more to the here and now,
a couple of years ago you guys decided to invest and turned I think the Speed Channel into FOX Sports 1, you made a
lot of investment at FX and that family of networks. And that's really, I think in the eyes of the investor, driving growth
over the next few years. I'm wondering if you can just talk about where we are in the sort of EBITDA trajectory,
particularly for those – they're not new assets, per se, but assets that are probably more profitable, you invested a lot
into them, and now we're hoping to see sort of the harvest of those investments over the next few years. Any color you
can add would be helpful as we think about sort of the medium term.
<A - James Rupert Murdoch>: Sure. Thanks, Ben. I think I'd add another stool to that – leg to that stool, I guess,
which is the investment that we've made in India in STAR, which is also one of the things that has been the investment
we've been making, but also, I think when you look forward, generates a lot of growth. So with respect to FS1, Fox
Sports 1, is fully in profit for the full year this year. And we think that's a great achievement. We've invested a lot in
programming, a lot in putting a great product on screen for people. And I think the launch and the first two years of this
project, as I said in my comments earlier, has really gone to plan or ahead of plan pretty much across the board, both in
terms of audience as well as the P&L. So, that's sort of where that is and we see really good growth there going
forward.
Now obviously one of the key things that drives that is affiliate fee increases. We have a lot of visibility on a lot of that,
but there are as new affiliate agreements come – go forward both in terms of distribution and price, we see an
opportunity to grow there. But those will come in steps.
FX, we think is really – the FX suite, more broadly, is really one of the core creative franchises in the business today,
and we think is very, very promising. We see good growth there, but obviously the investments in originals has been
very high, and that's something that has impacted profit other than it would be.
And at STAR, we really took 100% of the profit in the entertainment business and invested it in building a sports
business there after the acquisition of ESPN STAR Sports. We're seeing very, very good progress there. Last year, the
year just gone, was really the peak year of investment in that, so as we see continued growth in the entertainment
business there and the growth rate of cost in – or rather the costs spike in the sports business and ameliorate pretty
dramatically, you kind of get a double-whammy there. And the growth of the STAR business in terms of EBITDA will
be substantial this year and for the next few years as that sports investment kind of backs out.
So, I think I would say we feel really good about all of those things. And most importantly, I think as we looked at this
a number of years ago and said, listen, we're going to invest in these core brands, we're going to invest in – we're going
to invest actually in getting out of a lot of smaller brands, little things that weren't really moving the dial for customers,
we think that's been really successful. And when I look at our discussions with our wholesale distributors, when I look
at the way we're licensing, when I look at the volume and quality of the product that we have in our hands now, it's
paying dividends in the marketplace as we negotiate new distribution contracts, as we license things in a new way, and
as we grow the audience overall, as I detailed earlier.
<A - H. Reed Nolte>: Thank you, Ben. Operator, can we have next question please?
Company Name: Twenty-First Century Fox
Company Ticker: FOXA US
Date: 2015-11-04
Event Description: Q1 2016 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 15
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of John Janedis from Jefferies. Please go ahead.
<Q - John Janedis>: Thanks. There's been a lot of discussion about the health of the ad market. And now that you've
got a couple of years of FS1 on top of the rest of the portfolio, can you talk about the health of sports ad market relative
to the entertainment piece, and to what extent increased programming across TV broadly on the sports front may be
affecting price power or the balance between supply and demand?
<A - James Rupert Murdoch>: Thanks, John. Look, I think the health of the sports advertising business is pretty
good, we've seen I would say pretty much across the board in our sports portfolio. And I think it speaks to the increased
scarcity of big live events, mass events that can deliver big audiences consistently. And at this point, I think it's early
days in the season obviously in the NFL, but it feels reasonably good and strong going forward. As John mentioned
before, we had one week less than the year before, but that reverses out, or we get that week back, later in the season.
So I think it looks reasonably healthy.
And the baseball ratings I mentioned earlier and revenue associated with that was pretty strong. So I feel – I think we
feel pretty good about it. And the big events on FS1 like the Women's World Cup, things like that have been really
tremendous. I mean, the other day, I think it was just last Sunday, we had a really tremendous day of sports on the
network and on FS1. And all-in, it was a $100 million day. So that felt – that's pretty good.
<Q - John Janedis>: And maybe a quick follow-up, also, James. Thanks. Regarding your comments around
multi-platform viewing and audience, can you talk about when you expect some of the Nielsen changes to kick in from
a measurement perspective, and is it the assumption that monetization quickly follows, is the [ph] BOGO the upfront
(52:57)? It just seems like the monetization piece is perpetually a year way.
<A - James Rupert Murdoch>: Well, I think – I wouldn't say it's perpetually a year away, but I think it necessarily
lags the audience growth. And you generally try to focus on audience growth and then create a center of gravity, create
demand around that audience, and I think that's the way we've approached it. So I feel actually pretty good in the
progress there. And I would say that the Nielsen changes, C7 changes, et cetera, are relevant, but just as relevant is our
ability – moving to the question before – is our ability to gather up the data around viewing and frankly articulate that
in a clear way to clients and advertisers and also give them the tools that are easy for them to start to innovate and
experiment themselves.
We're really happy to be able to get engagement units launched on Hulu, or announced it yesterday, and we have
Mondelez, a number of Mondelez brands really as a sort of launch partner to do that and has a good volume of
inventory there. So I actually think this is picking up pretty quickly and it's a combination not just of the Nielsen – it's a
combination of the Nielsen ratings changes and getting a currency there that's established, but also a lot of other
viewership data coming from a variety of platforms. And we work with all of those – work with the third-party
services, from Rentrak, et cetera, but also our own internal data in terms of what we're streaming and how we're doing
it and those numbers there. So it's a blend of all those things, and so far, we're seeing reasonably good appetite for that,
although it's obviously coming from a smaller base.
<Q - John Janedis>: Thank you.
<A - H. Reed Nolte>: Thank you, John. Greg, we have one more – next question please?
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
<Q - Alexia S. Quadrani>: Thank you. My question's on the RSNs. You highlighted this recent strength at your RSNs
around the World Series. I guess, can you give us some perspective on how we should think of the RSNs from a
financial view versus your other cable properties and how demand for advertising rate volume versus – and also
Company Name: Twenty-First Century Fox
Company Ticker: FOXA US
Date: 2015-11-04
Event Description: Q1 2016 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 15
demand, how the outlook for sub revenue looks, just maybe relative to your other cable businesses?
<A - James Rupert Murdoch>: We're very fond of our RSNs, as we've talked about before. I think the performance of
the RSNs that I outlined earlier is super encouraging. We're seeing ratings growth from a competitive perspective, real
leadership in a lot of those local markets. And it really just speaks to the fact that the RSN businesses is a business built
around the tribal nature of sports and the passion that people have for these teams and these brands. And what we try to
do is balance the portfolio so that we have the strength in the right regions, we try to balance the long-term of that
business with respect to renewals, team agreements, et cetera, so that we can provide a lot of value for our team
partners there and get the value in the marketplace for them. The majority of that business from a revenue perspective
is affiliate revenue, so it's less driven by ratings and really the local ratings are more a measure of demand and really
help us with respect to pricing on a wholesale basis, whereas most of them are not big advertising businesses because
they are generally very, very local.
<A - H. Reed Nolte>: Thank you, Alexia. Greg, I think at this point we have time for one more question.
Operator
Okay, that question comes from the line of Todd Juenger from Sanford Bernstein. Please go ahead.
<Q - Todd Juenger>: All right. Ending it up here. I'll try and keep it brief, seeing the time. So just quickly, on the
television operating expense line, just wonder if you could help us from the outside understand anything that helps
drive that actually down I guess year-over-year. I mean there seems to be plenty of exciting new shows on your
networks and your broadcast network. So anything on timing related or just efficiencies there, what's going on would
be helpful.
And then secondly, real quickly, James, I know you already talked a lot about STAR. So just to put one final
punctuation, it's such a big incremental contributor of cash flow growth apparently over the next many years when we
think about that billion dollar number that was mentioned a couple of years ago, anything you could say on the
trajectory between now and then, what drives that, is it just a steady rate of subscriber growth with less cost, is there
marketing investment, is there some inflection required, anything to think about the pacing of that and when we'll see it
would be helpful? Thanks, guys.
<A - James Rupert Murdoch>: Okay. Todd, let me deal with the STAR answer first. Look, I think the inflection point
was really this year when we hit the sort of peak sports investment, because the business generally on an underlying
basis, the entertainment business is already well on its way and it's substantial profitable and I think we've disclosed
this, over $300 million this year in EBITDA. So it's really the eating, the taking that investment, taking all that profit
and reinvesting that into creating this new business in sports, we think really adds a totally new dimension and real
sense of scale, real scale to the business there. The inflection point is when that peaks and that peaked this year. So we
see – yes, this last year that just ended.
So when we look at the future of that business, while I'm not going to say it's a straight line, there's always some ups
and downs here and there, but the profit growth will start to be significant this year, and will continue towards that
billion dollar target at the present conditions, being consistent towards the end of this decade or thereabouts, at the turn
of the decade. So I think that feels reasonably good. It's totally dependent on continued creative excellence across that
business, so there's a lot of execution risk as there is in all these businesses. But we've got – we feel very, very good
about the products we have, about the brands, about the company there and we want to aim high with it. We think it can
really change our lives.
<A - John P. Nallen>: So, Todd, on your question on the TV OpEx, there's a few factors driving on a comparative
basis. First, at the network, earlier in the quarter, we had lower costing programming repeats versus some of the
original programming we had a year ago, same quarter. We've got lower programming at the station group given that
some programming is just rolling off there. And of course, given the revenue impact, we have lower cost for that NFL
week moving from this quarter to the following, to the third quarter. Offsetting that, we did have higher marketing costs
Company Name: Twenty-First Century Fox
Company Ticker: FOXA US
Date: 2015-11-04
Event Description: Q1 2016 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 15
at the network given that we launched clearly a schedule that had more new series than we've had in several years. So,
that balanced a bit of the cost reduction from the earlier.
H. Reed Nolte
Thank you, Todd. At this point, we are out of time, and I want to thank everybody for joining today's call.
James Rupert Murdoch
Thanks very much, everyone.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this conference will be available for replay up after 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time today through
November 14. You may access the AT&T Teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and
entering the access code 371866. International participants dial 320-365-3844. Those numbers once again are
1-800-475-6701 or 320-365-3844 with the access code 371866. That does conclude your conference for today. Thank
you for your participation and for using AT&T Executive Teleconference. You may now disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.