Company Name: Paypal Holdings Inc
Company Ticker: PYPL US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 13
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Tom G. Hudson
• Daniel H. Schulman
• John D. Rainey
Other Participants
• Daniel R. Perlin
• Sanjay Sakhrani
• Craig Jared Maurer
• Bryan C. Keane
• Tien-Tsin Huang
• Heath Patrick Terry
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to PayPal's Q3 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all
participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will
follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded.
I would like to introduce your host for this conference call Mr. Tom Hudson, Vice President of Investor Relations. You
may begin, sir.
Tom G. Hudson
Good afternoon, thank you for joining us and welcome to PayPal's earnings release conference call to the third quarter
of 2015. Joining me today on the call are Dan Schulman, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Rainey,
our Chief Financial Officer.
We are providing a slide presentation to accompany the commentary during call. In discussing year-over-year
comparisons, we have chosen to present non-GAAP pro forma measures, which reflect items that are factually
supportable, directly attributable to the separation of the company from eBay Inc. on July 17 of this year and expected
to have continuing impact on the company's results of operations. Because we believe these measures provide investors
a consistent basis for reviewing the company's performance across different periods.
All historical measures for periods prior to Q3, 2015 including year-over-year comparisons are presented on a
non-GAAP pro forma basis and unless otherwise stated. As our potential growth rates are calculated by translating a
term period local currency results by the prior period's exchange rate. This conference call is also being broadcast on
the Internet, and both the presentation and call are available through our Investor Relations section of the PayPal
website at investor.paypal-corp.com. You can visit our Investor Relations website for the latest company news and
updates. In addition, an archive of the webcast will be accessible for 90 days with the same link.
Company Name: Paypal Holdings Inc
Company Ticker: PYPL US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 13
Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that during the course of the conference call, we will discuss non-GAAP
measures and talking about our company's performance. Including the non-GAAP pro forma measures mentioned
above, you can find a reconciliation of those measures to the most direct comparable GAAP measures in the slide
presentation accompanying the call.
In addition, management will make forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, forecast and
assumptions and involve risk and uncertainties. These statements include, but are not limited to the future performance
of PayPal as a standalone business, including expected financial results in the full-year 2015, our forward-looking
statements do not conflict any impact in 2015 from the pending acquisition of Xoom business. Our actual results may
differ materially from those discussed in the call for a variety of reasons.
You can find more information about our risks, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our operating results in
our registration statement on Form-10 as amended in subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q available at
investor.paypal-corp.com. You should not rely on any forward-looking statements. All information to this presentation
is as of today's date October 28, 2015 and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update information.
With that, let me turn the call over to Dan.
Daniel H. Schulman
Thanks, Tom. Good afternoon, everyone and thank you for joining us on our first earnings call as an independent
company. I'm pleased to say, we had strong results for the quarter. Now, before I get into some of the details, I'd like to
introduce you to John Rainey, our new Chief Financial Officer. I'm thrilled that John joined our leadership team. He is
not just a seasoned of a company CFO but he is a world-class individual whose judgment and integrity are a pleasure to
see in action. I'm sure all of you will enjoy working with him. John will be providing a detailed overview of our
financial performance later in this call.
Now, let me highlight some of our key results and initiatives in the third quarter. PayPal had a great start as an
independent company gaining market share, expanding our customer base and deepening our engagement with our
customers. In Q3, payment volume increased 27% on an FX neutral basis with PayPal processing $70 billion in total
payment volume.
This continues our track record of mid to high 20% growth in every quarter this year. Merchant services TPV continued
its strong pace, growing 34 % approximately 1.5 times to 2 times the growth of ecommerce, further extending our
global lead in online and mobile payments.
We are operating in a time when change is sweeping through the financial services industry, driven by the rise of
mobile technology, and the acceleration of money becoming increasingly digital. These two massive trends play
directly to our strengths and give PayPal the unique opportunity to expand our reach and relevance to both consumers
and merchants. We are making significant strides in our vision to use our platform to become a full service solution
provider to merchants as they seek to form more intimate relationships with their customers.
And we strongly believe that our platform and our upcoming development efforts will enable PayPal to be an everyday
part of the financial life of our consumers.
Why do I consider our position so differentiated from our competition? It's not simply because we continue to build and
extend our strong leadership position. Of course our increasing scale helps, but it is our focus that separates us from
others. We are the only company that is entirely focused on end-to-end digital payments across the globe. Our brand
continues to strengthen. For the first time we were named as one of the top 100 brands in the world, driven by the latest
in our new product innovations, leading risk models, and outstanding customer service.
Each quarter we extend the strength of our key attributes, and this comes through clearly in our results. As I've
mentioned there are four metrics that capture the health and strength of our business. They are the increasing scale of
our customer base, the engagement of that base is measured by transactions per account, our topline revenue growth,
Company Name: Paypal Holdings Inc
Company Ticker: PYPL US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 13
and free cash flow.
And the third quarter was our best quarter of 2015 in each of these important areas. We finished the quarter with 173
million active accounts, adding over 4 million new customers in the past three months, our best net add quarter in 2015.
Of the 173 million approximately 13 million are merchants who accept PayPal across the world. Think about that.
Think about that scale in terms of both consumers and merchants. It's a powerful, very difficult asset to replicate.
To put it in context if our active customers were all citizens of a single nation, PayPal would now be the eighth largest
country in the world. Consumers across the globe and merchants large and small are signing up for PayPal in record
numbers, but our goal is not simply to grow our customer base. We are intensely focused on creating more relevant
relationships with every one of our customers.
In Q3 we processed 1.2 billion transactions for our customers, up 25% from last year. And perhaps most importantly
we increased transactions per account, which rose from 24 a year ago to 27, growing 12% as our new products and
services begin to resonate with our large customer base.
These strong customer numbers naturally led to strong revenue growth. We grew our topline at 19% on an FX neutral
basis and 15% on a spot basis in the third quarter with revenues of approximately $2.3 billion. This obviously
strengthens our conviction that we will deliver on our full-year FX neutral revenue guidance of 15% to 18%.
And finally, free cash flow expanded nicely in line with our expectations. We had a significant increase in our cash
flow. And we are on track to deliver our guidance of $1.6 billion to $1.8 billion for 2015. While we're obviously
pleased with our financial results, what's even more important is the strength of the underlying drivers of these results.
As I mentioned earlier our brand just continues to strengthen. In October for the first time ever PayPal was ranked on
Interbrand's Top Global 100 list, placing number 97. This honor is more than just a ranking. Being one of Interbrand's
Top 100 is the recognition that our brand is truly global and has successfully transcended geographic and cultural
differences.
And a recent Forrester study of U.S. consumers found that people trust PayPal to provide their mobile digital wallet
more than banks, credit card networks or other technology companies. The trust associated with our brand comes from
assets that are difficult to replicate. These range from our sophisticated risk algorithms, driven by the billions of
transactions on our platform and our 8,000 customer service associates, where our Net Promoter Score continues to rise
year over year. Our value proposition is a force that attracts consumers to choose PayPal. It drives measurable sales
conversion lift from merchants who offer PayPal as a way to pay.
Simply put merchants and consumers trust PayPal. But interestingly people are even more compelled to choose and use
us, once they have experienced the convenience of our newest innovations like One Touch. I'd like to highlight some of
the progress we made in the quarter innovating and enhancing our products for our customers.
Let me start with One Touch. I believe that One Touch is a significant leap forward in the commerce checkout
experience in a key way in which we are creating more engagement with our customers both merchants and consumers.
It is a faster, simpler and more convenient way for consumers to checkout at merchant sites whether in mobile apps, on
the mobile web or online across all form factors, OS platforms and payment types. In Q3, we began to roll out One
Touch to 16 markets and a 100% of eligible U.S. consumers and merchants.
Today, more than 50% of the IR 500 and over one million merchants around the world from the largest like Home
Depot to the smallest have One Touch enabled for their customers. And we are rapidly gaining consumer adoption.
Today, some seven million consumers have opted into use One Touch globally and every day that number rapidly
increases. We continue to see not just meaningful improvement in conversion rates when One Touch is used but also
interestingly, a significant improvement in customer engagement.
The innovation behind One Touch came to us with the acquisition of Braintree and the re-platforming of our PayPal
software stack enabled its rapid global implementation. We marked an important milestone with the two year
anniversary of our Braintree acquisition. It's now very clear that Braintree's early bet on mobile is paying off. Most of
the best next gen mobile commerce companies use Braintree for payments. Two years ago, Braintree had 56 million
Company Name: Paypal Holdings Inc
Company Ticker: PYPL US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 13
cards on file, this quarter Braintree had 185 million cards on file and has quadrupled the volumes they processes.
Our increased customer growth and engagement is the direct result of our focus of providing a full solution to our
merchant partners. The PayPal salesforce across 46 markets in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia is actively
selling the full suite of services on our platform, focused on capturing a 100% share of checkout and we're seeing
tremendous adoption, greatly expanding our base of merchants, which includes new companies like Jet.com, One
Kings Lane and hungryhouse, as well as industry leaders like Uber and Airbnb. And Venmo continues to set the
standard as the mobile payment app for millennials.
A year ago, Venmo processed $700 million in volume in Q3. This quarter, Venmo processed $2.1 billion of volume,
growing well over 200% year-over-year. This makes Venmo one of the fastest growing apps in the world and likely
one of the top 10 apps in the U.S. by dollar volume. And the typical Venmo customer engages with the Venmo app
multiple times per week. I'm also pleased to share that we will shortly begin trials allowing Venmo customers to pay
with Venmo at selected PayPal merchants. This provides even more value to Venmo customers and at the same time
allows us to start the monetization of our Venmo asset.
I'd like to close my remarks by highlight three areas; credit, our in-store and omni efforts and end with quick update on
our announced acquisitions. These topics frequently come up in conversations I have with investors, so I thought some
additional color might be helpful.
Credit is an important way we deepen our relationship with our customers, both merchants and consumers. And we're
committed to creating transparent and compelling credit products that help our customers have better control over their
money. I'm pleased but not surprised that PayPal working capital, our lending program that provides our merchant
customers the capital they need to grow and succeed has now exceeded $1 billion in credit extended to more than
60,000 small and medium businesses in the U.S., UK, and Australia.
PayPal working capital uniquely leverages PayPal technology and data to assess credit worthiness, underwrite and
service loans in ways that traditional lenders can't. We bet eligibility on a merchant's PayPal history and processing
volume, not their business or personal credit score. PayPal working capital loan amounts, which range from $1000 to
$85,000 fill a void in the traditional banking environment and perhaps most importantly PayPal working capital also
powers our traditional business. 90% of the merchants who use PayPal working capital reapply for a loan and their Net
Promoters Scores and TPV go up significantly, which naturally results in meaningful churn reduction numbers. It's a
true win-win proposition.
Let me now spend a couple of minutes on our multichannel efforts and some of our early successes working as major
merchants. Our goal is to help merchants provide a truly differentiated value proposition in using mobile across the
web, in-app and in-store. The movement of in-app mobile payments to the in-store environment unleashes a
tremendous new opportunity for us opening our addressable market by almost 10 times. Mobile provides a natural
evolution for PayPal to move from the online and in-app world to the in-store environment.
As our retail partners search for ways to use mobile across all channels in order to form ever more personal connections
to their customers, they are looking for a full service platform to power their application across all payment types and
royalty. They desire a cloud based solution that is point-of-sale technology, device and operating system agnostic. Our
merchants want to provide a consistent experience and value proposition to all of their customers regardless of channel,
device, OS or payment type and the combination of our Paydiant, Braintree and PayPal platforms provides the
capabilities they are looking for.
Unlike our previous in-store efforts, our merchant partners are driving the adoption of our open platform. PayPal is
working to be a true payments partner to merchants who are increasingly seeking to bridge the divide between online
and in-store through mobile. By being truly technology and payments agnostic, we can focus on improving the entire
commerce experience, by linking a merchants' loyalty, offers, rewards and private label credit cards into our platform
and provide capabilities like split tender at point-of-sale and other innovative propositions, in order to help merchants
create deeper and more powerful engagement with their customers.
Company Name: Paypal Holdings Inc
Company Ticker: PYPL US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 13
In September, Macy's announced an integration with PayPal for omni-channel checkout capability online, in-store and
on mobile. The integration enables Macy's customers to pay in-store the PayPal payment codes and online and on
mobile via the PayPal button and One Touch. These innovative payment options are now available at all Macy's,
Bloomingdale, Macy's Backstage and Bloomingdale's Outlet stores in the U.S.
SUBWAY with its 30,000 plus locations is using Paydiant and PayPal for its order-ahead application. And with Shell
Oil in the UK, we jointly announced a mobile payment service that allows drivers to fill up and go without having to go
into the store and pay. Fill Up & Go is the first mobile payment service at the pump offered by a fuels retailer in the
UK. And finally, our Paydiant platform is the technology powering Target, CVS, Walmart, Wendy's, Sears and Kmart,
as they trial the MCX currency application in Ohio.
As you can see merchants are beginning to use our platform and capabilities to put forth true value proposition
enhancements for their consumers. These omni-channel efforts are already well beyond anything we've done previously
and we're just getting started.
Finally, I'd like to touch on acquisitions. First, we expect to close our Xoom acquisition later this quarter. I'm more
excited than ever to welcome Xoom to the PayPal family, and in August, we announced the acquisition of Chicago
based Modest. A company that brought us world-class talent and technology that will allow us to accelerate our lead in
contextual commerce, allowing customers to pay for products and services in whatever context they discover them, not
just on a merchant website. Modest has deployed a leading set of APIs that allow contextual buy buttons to hook
directly into a merchant's ecommerce order management systems, which is essential in providing a full services
solution to our merchants. But as important as acquisitions are for us, our internal innovation efforts will always be our
primary driver of value.
Our technology re-platforming efforts have allowed us to dramatically accelerate our organic software development
roadmap. We now have a powerful combination of internal innovation efforts and acquisition fire power working in
tandem. That's a strong combination to drive and further differentiate our leadership position.
I'd like to conclude by saying thanks to the entire PayPal team. It's because of your focus, your passion for our mission
and day-in and day-out efforts that we continue to make strides towards our ultimate goal of being a customer
champion.
With that let me now turn the call over to John. John?
John D. Rainey
Thank you, Dan. It's a pleasure to be here for PayPal's first earnings call as a newly independent publicly traded
company. I'd also like to thank PayPal's 173 million customers and 16,000 employees worldwide for making this a
great quarter. We have a tremendous opportunity ahead of us, and I'm excited to be able to join Dan and the rest of the
PayPal team to transform the movement and management of money.
Q3 was a strong quarter, and we continued to execute on our plan. As Dan mentioned we grew revenue 19% on an FX
neutral basis and achieved earnings of $0.31 per share, an increase of 31%.
We continue to grow our share of the market. Our share gain is an indication that our strategy is working, as we expand
our product solution from a payment button to an end-to-end payment solution for merchants of all sizes. As our results
for the quarter show, we are delivering on the commitments that we outlined earlier this year. We are expanding our
reach and becoming more relevant, enabling us to deepen our engagement with our customers by increasing the number
of merchants where PayPal is available to shop and pay.
In the quarter we went live with a number of large retailers like Macy's, REI, and Symantec. As a result the number of
payment transactions per active account increased to 27, up 12% from a year ago. Importantly, our payment volume
through the mobile channel increased 42% year over year to $16.5 billion. With mobile growing faster and continuing
to gain share it highlights the shift in consumer behavior and the opportunity we have to leverage this trend, as mobile
Company Name: Paypal Holdings Inc
Company Ticker: PYPL US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 13
technology bridges the divide to the significantly larger in-store opportunity.
I want to highlight our performance on a few operating metrics for the quarter. First, we expanded our active account
base by more than 4 million in the quarter to 173 million customers. The number of payment transactions increased
25%, driven by the growth – driven by growth of the media, travel, and the retail verticals.
Total payment volume was $70 billion in the quarter, up 27% on an FX neutral basis. U.S. payment volume grew 28%,
a 2 point acceleration, while international growth was 25% again on an FX neutral basis.
Our U.S. business benefited from strong results in both Braintree and Venmo, in addition to the transaction growth
from our branded PayPal digital wallet product. PayPal merchant service transactions in North America, which exclude
Braintree and Venmo, accelerated 1 point to 25%.
As we conduct business in 203 markets across the world, the stronger dollar had an impact on our results, not only from
a translation perspective but also on consumer demand. We experienced weakness in China exports, specifically from
our merchants off of eBay, which were impacted by lower demand from both Australia and Europe.
For the quarter PayPal generated $2.3 billion in revenue, up 19% FX neutral. Transaction revenue was up 18%, while
other value-added services grew 26%. Transaction revenue benefited from rising engagement as reflected by the
increase in the number of payment transactions per active customer account. This increase reflects the growing
relevancy of Braintree's unbranded product and the evolution from a payment button or a tender type to payment
partner, where we capture all the merchant's processing volumes.
Other value-added services benefited from the growing penetration of PayPal Credit, as well as an amended agreement
with Synchrony Financial during the quarter, for which we will now record revenue each quarter, versus historically
recognizing revenue annually in the second quarter of each year. The amended agreement extends our relationship with
Synchrony and importantly no longer requires PayPal to purchase the credit portfolio in October of next year, freeing
up more than $1 billion of cash for uses that are more accretive to shareholders.
Total expenses grew 12%, significantly less than revenue. On a per transaction basis total expenses declined 11%. Our
volume based variable cost, which are transaction expense and transaction and loan losses, were up 17%. Despite the
additional cost associated with standing up an independent company, we gained economies of scale on our other
expenses, which were up only 7%. The investment in our technology platform has both increased security and
availability but also reduced the platform cost per transaction. We are also experiencing good cost control in the other
areas of our business, as we began to operate as an independent standalone company.
Our transaction margin for the quarter declined 80 basis points. This is a result of two things, both of which are a
deliberate strategy on our part. First, as we expand our presence with large merchants, our corresponding take rate is
lower, as they benefit from volume-based pricing. And second, as Braintree becomes a greater percentage of our
volume, the higher credit card mix results in increased transaction expense.
While our transaction margin declined, our operating margin expanded 200 basis points in the quarter. This
demonstrates our ability to maintain and even grow our margins with the operating leverage we have in the business, as
well as the discipline that this management team has around controlling cost.
Free cash flow for the quarter was $519 million, up 20% year over year with CapEx coming in at 6% of revenue.
I'd like to take a moment to discuss capital allocation. There are few companies of our size with our balance sheet and
growth rate that are generating the free cash flow and operating margins of PayPal. We have a tremendous opportunity
to increase shareholder value with the deployment of that cash flow, be it through organic investments, acquisitions or
returning cash to shareholders. I will discuss our plans for each of those on our next earnings call as we lay out our
strategy for 2016.
From a balance sheet perspective, we ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $6.7 billion, including
approximately $2.4 billion in the U.S. In July, we announced our agreement to acquire Xoom, a digital money transfer
provider and have made good strides towards closing this transaction. Xoom shareholders approved the acquisition and
Company Name: Paypal Holdings Inc
Company Ticker: PYPL US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 13
pending regulatory approvals, we expect this to close in the fourth quarter. This transaction will have a negligible
impact to our full-year 2015 results.
And now to guidance, for 2015 we're executing on our strategy and our strong performance in the third quarter only
reinforces our confidence in our guidance both for 2015 as well as the mid-term guidance we provided at the time of
our separation. We're firmly on track to deliver on our full-year 2015 pro forma guidance of FX neutral revenue growth
of 15% to 18% and EPS of $1.23 to $1.27.
The U.S. dollar was a headwind to our spot revenue growth in the third quarter, representing a four point difference
between our reported revenue growth of 15% and our 19% revenue growth on a currency neutral basis and we expect a
similar impact in the fourth quarter.
In closing, we have created a leading sustainable financial model, which allows us to keep innovating and growing at
scale. We're a global company with a trusted and recognized brand. We operate in 203 markets across the world with
173 million customers. We're growing our topline at a 15% to 18% annual clip. We had a 20% operating margin in the
quarter and generated almost $0.25 of free cash flow for every dollar of revenue earned. And along with our revenue
growth, our good cost control and operating leverage enabled us to grow EPS by over 30% in the quarter. And lastly,
we have a management team that is laser focused on creating shareholder value.
With that, let me turn it back to the operator for questions.
Q&A
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Dan Perlin with RBC Capital Markets.
<Q - Daniel R. Perlin>: Thanks guys and good evening. And the question I had is I guess just two and real quick, one
is you talked about this monetization strategy around Venmo and it's clearly, it's obviously driving a lot for account
growth, and it's obviously driving part of the take rate degradation, so it's key. I'm just trying to understand really the
process that you're going to go through in order to do that and is the pricing model going to be similar to what we've
come to expect in terms of your take rate?
<A - Daniel H. Schulman>: So let me take that. Thanks for the question. So we'll start trials with pay with Venmo at
selected PayPal merchants this quarter. And basically what this does, it opens up the PayPal or the, excuse me, the
Venmo base to our PayPal merchants and it will be exactly the same take rates. So depending on where they are
buying, it will be just as if a PayPal customer is purchasing at a PayPal merchant. So those will be very familiar
economics to you.
We're trialing this in the fourth quarter assuming from a technological perspective this works. Obviously we have,
millions by millions, by millions of Venmo users, merchants are eager for them to start to buy at their locations. We
would start to roll that out next year and by the end of next year really expect to fully monetize the Venmo asset. So
you'll start to see that come into next year and hopefully be fully rolled out so that any Venmo user can pay pretty much
almost any PayPal merchant location that's the goal and objective that we have with similar take rate, no change in the
take rate.
<Q - Daniel R. Perlin>: Excellent, one other real quick one. Can you just put a finer point on this growth driven by the
amendment with Synchrony, you called it out a second ago and I see it in your slide deck, can you just explain
specifically is there a gain in that or is the pricing, or is it just something else if you could just point it out, thanks.
<A - John D. Rainey>: Sure Dan, this is John. So in the quarter, we amended our agreement with Synchrony, which
provides the PayPal branded credit card. That agreement was set to expire in 2016, and as I called out in my prepared
remarks that required us to have a significant outlay of cash to purchase that credit portfolio. The amendment now
extends the agreement through 2023 and we no longer have that obligation to purchase the credit portfolio. Although,
Company Name: Paypal Holdings Inc
Company Ticker: PYPL US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 13
we do have the option at that point in time.
But importantly, as it relates to our economics there are two things that we point out. One is that they are better
economics and in the quarter, we recognized about $37 million related to this transaction. Probably 25 % of that
number is more one-time in nature than the rest is what we would expect on a quarterly basis going forward. That's a
little bit different than what we have done in the past, where we recognized or we settled all of the revenue in the
second quarter of each year. So, we'll see a more consistent earnings stream from this transaction going forward.
<Q - Daniel R. Perlin>: Okay, Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani with KBW.
<Q - Sanjay Sakhrani>: Thank you. Dan, I was just wondering if you could comment on the Chase Pay, MCX deal, I
was wondering if you would think it impacts PayPal in any way. And specific to your MCX relationship with Paydiant,
is there any change to that? Thanks.
<A - Daniel H. Schulman>: Hey, Sanjay, thanks for the question. First off, we have a very close relationship with the
folks at MCX whether that would be with Brian Mooney and his team or with the merchants that are part of the MCX
consortium. And obviously Paydiant is the technology provider that powers the currency application, Chase Pay will be
integrated in through our Paydiant platform. And my view on all of this is that you got an exploding marketplace right
now for digital payment. So, I mean the number of opportunities is immense. And honestly putting those in order of
priority selecting which people to work with, making sure that it fits within our full development pipeline is a big test
that we have because of the amount of interest in working with our platforms and working with us. I think you're going
to see obviously numerous different people coming into the payment space, there are announcements all the time.
Chase Pay is another way to pay as many other payment forms are and mostly they integrate through our platforms.
And so, I would say we have very close relationship with MCX and continue to have a close relationship with MCX.
We're exploring additional opportunities with MCX. And the more successful that they are that's helpful for us as we
have a close relationship with them and their merchant partners.
<Q - Sanjay Sakhrani>: And just maybe one related follow-up, I guess a key component of the value proposition is
the idea that the loyalty numbers can be attached to the tender or something, could you just talk about, I mean, I think
you guys have that capability and how important it is to your merchants for that to occur? Thanks.
<A - Daniel H. Schulman>: Yeah, it's great question. I think it's crucial, because what I think merchants really want to
do, in fact, what I know merchants want to do is not a form factor change. They are not looking to just substitute a card
swipe for a mobile tap. What they are looking for is a true value proposition change.
And part of these true value proposition changes are one, knowing the customer when they come in because you now
know who they are when they come in to the store, but rewarding them as well, and so lots of the merchants are
creating applications that give rewards instantaneously. And then those awards hook up into our platform through a set
of APIs, so we are not creating the rewards program, the merchant is.
We are powering it through our platform, so that when a consumer checks out, they can immediately see okay, I got
rewarded for those purchases, they then have the option to do split tender at a point of sales so they could pay for a part
of that purchase with their rewards points, a part of that with a certain tender type you can automatically for instance
when a customer walks into a store, have the private label credit card pop-up as the default.
So there are all sorts of great things you can do when you have a robust platform that goes across payment sites, across
the websites and across form factors and also works in multiple POS environments and that's really kind of why we
pull together a set of assets from Paydiant to Braintree to PayPal and are integrating those platforms together so that we
can provide a robust platform solution that enables merchants to write their application, tie in their offers, loyalty
rewards into our platform. And then we can also bring with that 173 million customers we have through our PayPal
Company Name: Paypal Holdings Inc
Company Ticker: PYPL US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 13
button into that platform to light up that platform. So it's a very strong combination of both unbranded and branded that
merchants are excited about working with us.
<Q - Sanjay Sakhrani>: Okay, great thank you.
<A - Daniel H. Schulman>: Yep, you're welcome.
Operator
Our next question comes from Craig Maurer with Autonomous.
<Q - Craig Jared Maurer>: Hi, thanks for taking my questions. Two questions for you, first would you discuss the
directionality of the payment yield that you stripped out Venmo and Braintree. And then secondly in walking the floor
at Money2020 we caught up with a few very large merchants and discussed PayPal acceptance at the point-of-sale and
almost universally they discussed a reluctance to do business with "middle man" through the PayPal's current construct
looking at what Walmart is able to do directly with Chase, asking Sanjay's question in a different way this is set a
precedent that could severally impact PayPal's prospects at point-of-sales with large merchants?
<A - John D. Rainey>: Yeah, so let me take the first question. I think what you asked is stripping out the effect of
Venmo and Braintree on our take rate. That's not something that we breakout through the public. We really want our
customers to think about is one product as we continue to integrate that into the overall PayPal payments platform. So
we don't disclose that separately.
<A - Daniel H. Schulman>: And second, Craig to your point, we are working with one large merchant after another
throughout, not just country here but across the world, in talking to them about how they want to use mobile across
online in-app and in-store. And that neutral third party is actually a strength that we bring to that. There are all sorts of
ways of thinking about how we use technology to help merchants. But that consistency of being able to use sort of
some of the unique assets we have like our funding mix to be able to help merchants at point-of-sale to look across
payment type, so not just it one payment type and have a different experience with it, a different operating system, have
a different experience with that. But create a consistency across payments, across loyalty, across different technologies.
And that is hitting a real chord with merchants.
Of course not every merchant is going to want to do business with us as we go out in the world. We don't think this is
going to be a winner take-all model. But the assets that we are bringing are really resonating. And we're having more
strategic conservations on a daily basis with the largest merchants than we've ever had before.
<Q - Craig Jared Maurer>: Okay. And if I could just follow-up real quick. I just want to understand the sustainability
of margin gains in the quarter, because it looks like investment, reinvestment in the business seemed to slow a bit in the
quarter. So just to understand how we should think about the run rates for OpEx? Thanks.
<A - John D. Rainey>: Sure. So let me address the margin piece first and come back to the run rate for OpEx. As I
said in my prepared remarks we did see some compression in our take rate. But that's actually validation that we're
executing on our strategy. As we provide – become more relevant to our customers and enable them to use PayPal with
large merchants and expand Braintree.
Fortunately, for us we expanded our operating margin 200 basis points in the quarter, and that's a good indication of the
operating leverage that we have in the business. Our other cost that are not volume related in the quarter represented
about 42% of our revenue. That's down three points from the previous year, where it was 45% of our revenue. And so
this is something that we will continue to do going forward, as we focus on free cash flow generation and increasing
our margins.
With respect to the overall level of operating cost in the business I think the third quarter is fairly representative of what
we should look like going forward. We did have some noise in our year-over-year comparisons, as we stood up an
independent organization. And if you go through the individual line items for our expenses, you see some
year-over-year increases and decreases, which are not necessarily representative of the run rate, as we had to add an
Company Name: Paypal Holdings Inc
Company Ticker: PYPL US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 13
infrastructure for PayPal separate from eBay.
<A - Daniel H. Schulman>: I'd just add a couple of...
<Q - Craig Jared Maurer>: Thank you.
<A - Daniel H. Schulman>: There are numerous areas of the business where our re-platforming is making us more and
more efficient, whether that be in our ability to handle customer service on a more efficient way, because when we
deploy, you have less bugs, less calls coming in. It's a much more efficient system now. And as we continue to do that,
we continue to see the ability to have increased operating leverage. So I think John's remarks are right and I continue to
see operating leverage for us.
<Q - Craig Jared Maurer>: Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from Bryan Keane, Deutsche Bank.
<Q - Bryan C. Keane>: Hi, guys, John, the transaction revenue was 15% year-over-year last quarter. It dropped 200
basis points to 13% this quarter. I think FX is playing a role. Maybe you can just talk about what it is on a constant
currency basis and any moving pieces in there?
<A - John D. Rainey>: Sure, so transaction revenue on a constant currency basis was 18% up for the quarter versus
13% on a spot basis.
<Q - Bryan C. Keane>: And what was it in the June quarter?
<A - John D. Rainey>: Bryan, I don't have that number right in front of me. But we can have Tom and team get back
to you on that.
<Q - Bryan C. Keane>: Okay, but there was nothing materially different in the business that caused the drop. Because
I think most people in the Street were modeling more a 15% growth rate. And the 13%, I'm just trying to figure out if it
was just FX popped up a little bit that could be the difference?
<A - Daniel H. Schulman>: Well we did see continued pressure from FX. And as you might remember we initially
guided to about a 3 point difference for the full-year. And we saw a 4 point difference in the quarter.
And I'll remind you that as we go into the fourth quarter, we're beginning to lap the period last year where we saw the
dollar strengthen. And why that's relevant is we tend to hedge currency out about six quarters. And we'll lap that period
where we were taking advantage previously of the better exchange rates.
And so the hedges that we have in place in the fourth quarter won't be as good as what you've seen in the second and
third. And just for more transparency there in the third quarter, the year-over-year difference in hedges was about $55
million for us. And perhaps more to your point that declined from about an $80 million impact in the second quarter.
So that could be some of what you see in the transaction revenue.
<Q - Bryan C. Keane>: Okay, no, that's helpful. And then, Dan, just on pricing. If you look at it like-for-like – I
understand the mix and large merchants as they take over, the take rate drops. But just pricing in general for like-to-like
merchants are you seeing a lot of pressure there?
<A - Daniel H. Schulman>: We really aren't. It's obviously competitive environment. But when we look at the
attributes of the take rate decline, it is overwhelmingly explained by the mix shift of product and the mix shift towards
large merchants. And that's been relatively consistent over time for us as well. So no real change on that.
And as John said we repeated this time and time again. We are consciously making a strategy choice to be a 100%
share of checkout, to be a full service solution provider to merchants. It's making a real difference in our ability to be a
strategic partner with them. When we do that PayPal is always implemented in a way that typically improves our share
Company Name: Paypal Holdings Inc
Company Ticker: PYPL US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 13
of the checkout, as it's our most advanced integration on that. With every one of those implementations we add
additional revenues and additional profit dollars.
So although our take rate may come down, that's absolutely the right thing for us to do. And as we move towards more
and more ubiquity for PayPal consumers to shop and move into more and more larger merchants as John also
mentioned, the more volume the lower the take rate on that, but that's just the part of how the payments industry work.
So, it is all about strategy and strategic choices driving that. The environment as remain relatively constant.
<Q - Bryan C. Keane>: Okay. Just one last quick question on the guidance, on revenue guidance in particular constant
currency you stay the same you were at already at 15% to 18%, but you're tracking 19% year-to-date, is there anything
to think about in the fourth quarter, why necessarily the rate would drop into that range or you just making through
your conservative and sticking with the guidance? Thanks so much.
<A - Daniel H. Schulman>: All right, you bet. So, when we gave our guidance, it wasn't quarterly guidance, it was
guidance for the year. And we're still comfortable with that range. I will say that both from a revenue and an EPS
perspective, are biased is probably towards the upside of that.
<Q - Bryan C. Keane>: Super thanks.
Operator
Our next question comes from Tien-Tsin Huang with JPMorgan.
<Q - Tien-Tsin Huang>: Great, thanks for taking my question. Just on the margin side, how are you balancing,
showing margin expansion like you talked about versus investing in growth? And I just wanted to clarify looks like
year-to-date you're up 60 bps or so in non-GAAP margin if my math is right. And your full year target is up 0 bps to
100 bps, so with one quarter to go is it safe to say you will be in the upper half of that range?
<A - Daniel H. Schulman>: So, as John said, we're maintaining our guidance, but are bias obviously because of our
results is towards the upper end of that. And as John also mentioned, we gave guidance for the year not for any of the
quarter, but our results are certainly coming in at higher end of this guidance on all of those metrics and most of the
Street is there and that's how we are performing.
In terms of margin versus investing in the business, we gave medium-term guidance, let's say that we felt that our
margin could be flat to expanding over the medium-term, so feel very comfortable with that. There is a tremendous
amount of operating leverage in our business. We think we have plenty of room to invest in the growth opportunities in
front of us and still maintain our margin or slightly grow our margin going forward, that hasn't changed.
As I mentioned, there are tremendous amount of opportunities in front of us. You may have seen in the press release,
you know we just signed a major deal with América Móvil in Latin America, the largest wireless provider there that
will make a significant difference in results down there, it's going to be a pretty extensive partnership. You know those
opportunities around us all over and we have both the product development capabilities to go and implement those and
the investment capacity to make sure that those partnerships are successful.
So, as John mentioned, we are laser focused on the cost, but we are laser focused on the cost at the right way. We are
not cutting cost for short-term gains one way or another. We are cutting costs because we are operating more efficiently
and that really is the major takeaway for this. So we're very comfortable as John mentioned with the medium term
guidance that we've given.
<A - John D. Rainey>: And I would add one more thing to what Dan said, I think a good example to really in response
to your question on margin expansion versus growth is our Xoom acquisition. So we've disclosed that Xoom would be
slightly dilutive to our results in 2016. But we obviously – every decision we make is through the lens of creation of
shareholder value. And we're not going to manage the business for next month's revenue or next month's earnings.
We're going to manage it in terms of who do we create long-term shareholder value and Xoom is a great example of
that as we get to expand into the money remittance business and leverage what is already done there today with
Company Name: Paypal Holdings Inc
Company Ticker: PYPL US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 13
PayPal's 173 million customer base.
<Q - Tien-Tsin Huang>: Understood now that's helpful. So just one follow-up, just on the – still trying to learn the
press release and what not, did you give large merchant TPV mix? And then also Dan, I think you said the pipeline for
new merchant pipeline is strong. I'm curious is the sale cycle for adding new merchants changed at all, given so much
new activity on the payment side. Thanks for taking my questions.
<A - John D. Rainey>: Yeah. So we did not give the large merchant mix in the press release. That will be in the Q,
which is coming out, I believe, tomorrow the number is 46% for the quarter. And there was question on number of
merchants.
<A - Daniel H. Schulman>: Yeah, so as John mentioned, we added three large merchants REI, Symantec and Macy's,
but we have just an immense pipeline of booked business. We need to come on to our platform. It takes a little bit of
time to bring that on. It depends on how major a merchant is and if we're doing 100% of the processing which most is
moving towards but no it's just, you will see constant drum beat of that occurring given our backlog right now.
<A - Tom G. Hudson>: Operator, we have time for just one more question, please. Thank you.
Operator
Okay. Our next question comes from Heath Terry with Goldman Sachs.
<Q - Heath Patrick Terry>: Great. Just one sort of technical question, I wanted to make sure that we're thinking about
the right way to start with. You mentioned the 400 basis points of FX headwind in the quarter and then the FX hedge
timing, as we look at the guidance for 300 basis points to 400 basis points in Q4, how does it work, where we're seeing
that impact declining or roughly declining quarter-over-quarter with the roll off on the hedge timing, I just want to
make sure that we're thinking about that the right way.
And then, Dan when you say immense pipeline of booked business, how much of that is in the pipeline because hey it's
fourth quarter and nobody wants to mess with their payments going into the end of the holiday season versus sort of
more linear addition of customers and it's just the challenge of sort of any new implementation?
<A - John D. Rainey>: Sure, so I'll take the first piece there. As we go into the fourth quarter, the year-over-year
decrease or the way the dollar has – what am I trying to say here? The exchange rate environment is better in the fourth
quarter than it is in the third quarter on a year-over-year basis. However, the offset from the hedged position is not as
good for us in the fourth quarter as it is in the third quarter. At today's exchange rates, our hedge gain in the fourth
quarter would be in the 20$ million to $25 million range.
<Q - Heath Patrick Terry>: Okay. And then on the immense pipeline of booked business, which by the way should
have been the headline on your press release?
<A - Daniel H. Schulman>: Yeah, so it's much more linear, obviously we've got the fourth quarter moratorium coming
up but that's not the reason for the pipeline. It is a pipeline that has just grown each quarter, you know lot of it coming
into the Braintree platform, lot of it, all of it with a PayPal button on it, so you know my, as we come through this
quarter, with19% revenue growth on our top-line real nice improvement on our EPS. And as I look forward, I have got
a tremendous amount of enthusiasm for where this business can go. We just came off of our offsite for 2016 planning,
but not only do we come out of that with enthusiasm for 2016 could look like. But I felt the most important takeaway
was we came out of that thinking about really just how that sets us up for great 2017. And that's really the way that we
are thinking about the business.
Overall, the capabilities that we are building, our internal development efforts are accelerating in a very nice fashion
right now. We will start to have some of our acquisitions come on board and then we will be able to leverage some of
that. Our customers are really responding to the new PayPal when you pull all that together, and we're obviously
reiterating our medium term guidance on this, but you know we feel good about strength of our business and the
momentum of it.
Company Name: Paypal Holdings Inc
Company Ticker: PYPL US
Date: 2015-10-28
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 13
<A - John D. Rainey>: Thank you.
<Q - Heath Patrick Terry>: Thank you, guys.
<A - Daniel H. Schulman>: Thank you.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the question-and-answer portion of today's conference. I'd like to turn the call
back over to our host.
Daniel H. Schulman
Thank you very much, everybody, for joining us and we look forward to talking with you later on today, tomorrow and
throughout the quarter. Thank you.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen. This does conclude today's presentation you may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.