Company Name: UPS
Company Ticker: UPS US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 15
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Joe Wilkins
• David P. Abney
• Alan Gershenhorn
• Richard N. Peretz
• Myron A. Gray
• James Jay Barber, Jr.
Other Participants
• Kenneth Scott Hoexter
• Thomas Wadewitz
• Ben J. Hartford
• Tom Kim
• J. David Scott Vernon
• Brandon Robert Oglenski
• Nate J. Brochmann
• Chris Wetherbee
• Art W. Hatfield
• Scott A. Schneeberger
• Scott H. Group
• Jeffrey Kauffman
• Alexander Vecchio
• Allison M. Landry
• Robert H. Salmon
• David G. Ross
• Bascome Majors
• John Barnes
• Kelly A. Dougherty
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning. My name is Steven, and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this time, I would like to
welcome everyone to the UPS Investor Relations Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been
placed on mute to prevent any background noise, and after the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer
period. Please note we will take only one question from each participant to accommodate more analysts during the call.
Thank you for your cooperation.
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Mr. Joe Wilkins, Investor Relations Officer. Sir, the floor is
yours.
Joe Wilkins
Company Name: UPS
Company Ticker: UPS US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 15
Good morning, and welcome to the UPS third quarter 2015 earnings call. Joining me today are David Abney, our CEO;
Richard Peretz, our CFO; along with International President, Jim Barber; President of U.S. Operations, Myron Gray;
and Chief Commercial Officer, Alan Gershenhorn.
Before we begin, I want to review the Safe Harbor language. Some of the comments we'll make today are
forward-looking statements that address our expectations for the future performance or results of operations of the
company. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which are described in detail in our 2014 Form 10-K
and 2015 10-Qs. These reports are available on the UPS Investor Relations website and from the Securities and
Exchange Commission.
In our remarks today, all full year comments and comparisons will refer to 2014 adjusted results. In addition, we will
discuss UPS' free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
In mid-August, UPS closed on its acquisition of Coyote Logistics. For the remainder of 2015, the business results of
Coyote will be reported in the Supply Chain & Freight segment. Revenue will be included in the Forwarding and
Logistics unit on our web schedules. The webcast of today's call, along with the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial
measures, are available on the UPS Investor Relations website and, just as a reminder, please ask only one question so
that we may allow as many as possible to participate. Thanks for your cooperation. Now we'd like to turn the call over
to David.
David P. Abney
Thanks, Joe. Good morning, everyone. UPS continued its positive momentum with the third consecutive quarter of
improved growth in earnings per share. This is consistent with the outlook we provided during our Q2 call. During the
third quarter, our International segment again produced double digit growth in operating profits. The U.S. Domestic
and Supply Chain & Freight units performed as planned. We are pleased with the results this quarter, especially given
the uneven global economy. We remain on track to achieve the higher end of our full year earnings per share guidance.
Looking closer at the global economy, GDP growth in the U.S. has remained relatively unchanged. E-commerce has
continued to expand, but the strong dollar has contributed to lower industrial production growth and softer exports.
Global GDP forecasts for the second half of the year have come down in leading European markets, including
Germany, Poland and the U.K. Asia has also come down slightly, primarily influenced by lower China output.
In other global trade developments during the quarter, we were encouraged that an agreement was reached on the
Trans-Pacific Partnership, an accord that is expected to establish the rules of 21st century trade. In the U.S. it now
awaits Congressional review and approval. We expect the agreement to cut the customs red tape and allow faster
clearance of shipments. TPP should also create a more level playing field for private companies when competing with
government-supported entities. Additionally, tariff cuts and transparency measures will provide benefits to companies
on both sides of the Pacific. We continue to promote TPP with Congress to help ensure the many benefits of the
agreement are fully understood.
Our key strategies have positioned us well to help UPS customers, especially small and mid-size companies, as they
and we capitalize on expanded global trade and other new growth opportunities. We continue to invest in these key
strategies, which include focusing on high growth markets, expanding network capacity, improving operational
efficiency, and developing custom solutions for targeted industries.
During the quarter, we announced the largest expansion ever of our Worldwide Express portfolio. UPS extended this
time and day-definite service to more than 41,000 new postal codes, many in high growth markets. This product is now
available in countries that comprise more than 90% of global GDP. We have also expanded capabilities for UPS
customers with the recent acquisition of Coyote Logistics. This strategic investment brings UPS a high tech asset-light
entry into the fast growing truckload brokerage market. Jeff Silver and the pack add a tremendous amount of value to
the UPS portfolio, providing growth opportunities for Coyote and UPS. In addition, the acquisition of Coyote will
enable us to better manage UPS backhaul capacity and purchased transportation spend. We anticipate this combination
Company Name: UPS
Company Ticker: UPS US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 15
to create more than $100 million in unique synergies.
We are already reaping the benefits of the Coyote acquisition. In October, the UPS Freight Brokerage team transitioned
to Coyote's world-class order management platform, known as Bazooka. The migration went smoothly and customers
tell us they're pleased with the results. Coyote will also play an expanded role by supporting our U.S. peak season
operations this year.
Speaking of peak, our plans include a multifaceted strategy. We're implementing selective pricing initiatives, adding
new capacity that is aligned with customer needs, and installing innovative technology solutions. In a moment, Alan
Gershenhorn will provide further details on our peak plans.
UPS is working closely with customers to ensure we have the operating plans in place that will provide excellent
service at an appropriate cost. We expect peak season to provide great value to UPS customers and investors. I am
encouraged by the progress we're making on our strategic initiatives and impressed by the dedicated efforts of our
team. UPSers around the world are gearing up for an exciting holiday season and I want to thank them in advance for
their efforts.
Now, I will turn it over to Alan.
Alan Gershenhorn
Thanks, David. And I will welcome the opportunity to update you on our global peak season plans and expectations.
The growth of online shopping and returns continues to redefine peak season at UPS, and this year, between
Thanksgiving and New Year's, we expect to complete about 10% more deliveries compared to the same period last
year. And then on our planned peak day, December 22, we are scheduled to deliver about 36 million packages
worldwide, more than twice a typical day.
Now, looking at the market, the National Retail Federation expects holiday retail sales to increase 3.7% and online
sales are forecast to rise between 6% and 8%, similar to last year, but still very strong growth. As David just
mentioned, we have broadened our strategy for peak this year and these actions are producing year-round benefits. And
UPS is focusing right now on three areas, both to improve customer experience, and also the financial results of our
business. We're collaborating with customers to align our capacity with their needs. We're installing world-class
technology solutions and we're also implementing selective pricing initiatives.
Our first area of focus is to continue to deepen collaboration with customers by jointly developing operating plans that
provide the capacity and service levels they expect. And to support our customers' need for flexibility, we will again
employ our control tower this year. The primary goal is to optimize the network capacity by providing creative
solutions to our customers' unique requests. This allows UPS to further say yes to our customers.
In addition, customers have more options this year, including increased adoption of omni-channel distribution and the
use of our expanded Access Point solution. In fact, about 60% of retailers will have an omni-channel strategy deployed
this peak. At the same time, UPS will have 8,000 Access Point locations open in the U.S. and more than 22,000
globally. And this December, 20 million UPS My Choice subscriber households around the world can link to the
Access Point network for delivery solutions that will provide them even more market-leading choice, control, and
convenience.
Looking at our second area of focus, all our constituents will benefit from several key technology and facility
automation projects this year. New and updated hubs in the U.S. and Europe will increase sort capacity and reduce cost,
and we have a multiyear plan to modernize or replace all of our major sorting facilities. And on the road, our delivery
dispatch will be even more efficient during peak, with the acceleration of ORION. This year, 70% of our U.S. drivers
will be utilizing this world-class dispatch technology, up from 45% last year. These technology advances allow us more
flexibility to efficiently and effectively adapt to changing customer volume levels on a daily basis.
Company Name: UPS
Company Ticker: UPS US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 15
Now, finally, looking at pricing, package sizes continue changing, due to the e-commerce trends. As a result, we have
adjusted prices to ensure they are aligned to the value of the services that we provide. For lightweight packages, as you
know, earlier this year, we expanded the dim weight charges for ground shipments. This change encourages our
customers to optimize their packaging. At the same time, we continue to see an increase of very large packages. These
shipments require special handling and minimize the opportunity for automated processing. As a result, we've increased
the surcharge for these packages. Ultimately, these changes provide an economic incentive for customers to enhance
packaging and/or choose the appropriate UPS network.
In summary, the UPS team is ready to provide customers around the world with world-class value and service during
this upcoming holiday season. And the steps we are taking will deliver year-round benefits for both UPS customers and
our shareowners.
Now I'll turn it over to Richard.
Richard N. Peretz
Thanks, Alan, and good morning. Our business units continued to execute well and our third quarter performance
delivered solid operating results. Reported revenue was slightly lower in the third quarter. Top line revenue growth was
reduced by about $700 million, as a result of the year-over-year currency and fuel surcharge changes.
The International segment generated double digit profit growth for the third consecutive quarter of the year and the
U.S. Domestic and Supply Chain & Freight segments continued to perform as expected. Overall, UPS generated
earnings per share of $1.39, an increase of 5.3%.
Let's move to the segment details. Starting with the U.S. Domestic business, where revenue increased 1.9%, fuel
surcharges lowered total reported revenue by about 250 basis points or $200 million. Strong base rates were offset by
fuel surcharges and changes in product and customer mix. Average revenue per package was essentially flat to last
year. Customers continued to choose our air services with elevated demand for Deferred Air products up over 13% and
Next Day Air up 4%. In the U.S., ground volume slowed this quarter. Overall, daily package volume increased slightly.
The pace of B2C growth increased in the third quarter and offset the declines in B2B shipments. Additionally, tough
comparisons to last year, combined with a softening macro environment, have muted growth.
Operating profit was in line with expectations, but down slightly to last year. Results were affected by higher pension
expense and a slight drag from fuel. Operating margins came in at 14.2%.
Let's move to the International segment, and we have some good news here. I'm pleased to say our momentum
continues. We've set new highs in the third quarter operating profit, increasing more than 10%. These results
demonstrate our ability to adapt in a shifting global economy. Revenue on a currency-neutral basis was up 0.4%. In
addition, fuel surcharges reduced growth by about 350 basis points.
Base rates expanded their highest pace so far this year, reflecting the continuation of our yield improvement initiatives
across the globe. Export Daily packages increased 1.2% over last year. It was driven by two factors. First, we have
worked to ensure we have the right packages in our network to increase operating leverage. Second, gains in European
transborder and U.S. imports were offset by a further decline in U.S. and Asia exports.
In our International Domestic business, shipments were down 3.4%, primarily due to slowing economic conditions in
Canada and Germany. Also this quarter, we took some rate action on a few low-yielding accounts in Europe.
Turning to the Supply Chain & Freight segment; I'll remind you that with the close of Coyote we've included their
revenue in the Forwarding and Logistics unit. Additionally, we booked a charge of about $20 million for
transaction-related costs. The Freight Forwarding unit continues to benefit from diversifying its customer base and
improving revenue quality.
Operating profit was higher and margin expanded as revenue and tonnage declined in the quarter. We are using the
controlled growth strategy that is translating into improved profitability. A softening market and our decisions to pass
Company Name: UPS
Company Ticker: UPS US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 15
on certain low-yielding contracts contributed to the change in tonnage. Revenue growth in the Distribution unit was
masked by the change in currency. The unit continues to invest in the future, expanding their industry-specific
solutions. Aerospace and healthcare expansions in 2015 contributed to the growth.
UPS Freight revenue was down 8.6% from the prior year. Fuel surcharges contributed about 600 basis points of the
decline. A combination of soft market demand and selective pricing actions resulted in the tonnage reduction, but
revenue per hundredweight increased slightly.
Now, let's turn to our cash flow. UPS continues to generate healthy free cash flow. In the first nine months, we've
produced $4.6 billion after investing $1.7 billion of capital expenditures. In addition, UPS repurchased 20 million
shares for approximately $2 billion and paid out another $1.9 billion in dividends, up 9% per share over last year.
Looking at our tax rate, we recorded a few discrete tax adjustments that lowered the effective rate to 34% for the
quarter. On an ongoing basis, we expect our tax rate to be 35.25%, and that's due to the mix of U.S. and International
profits.
Now let's discuss our guidance. We expect earnings per share at the higher end of our full year guidance of $5.05 per
share to $5.30 per share. In fact, for the fourth quarter we expect operating profit to increase at double digit pace in all
three of our business segments. In the U.S., we expect higher average daily volume growth in the fourth quarter to be
around 4% to 5%. We anticipate fourth quarter operating profit will be at the highest growth rate of the year, in the low
double digits, supporting our guidance for full year operating margin.
International momentum will continue in the fourth quarter with operating profit growth at the high end of the range.
Currency and fuel surcharge will again weigh on top line reported revenue growth. Underlying base rates will remain
strong. Looking at fourth quarter volume growth, it will be flat to last year. This is driven by the weakness in the global
economy and the ongoing revenue management initiatives we've implemented.
In Supply Chain & Freight, fourth quarter revenue is expected between 7% and 9%.The revenue actions we are taking
in the Forwarding unit will be outweighed by the addition of Coyote's revenue. Operating margin is expected to be
about 8%.
Before we open it up for questions, I want to take a moment and summarize our current position. Our strong execution
is generating positive momentum. We are managing our capital efficiently. We have experienced positive returns from
our investments in additional capacity and capabilities, producing strong free cash flow, and at the same time, we have
closed on our largest acquisition to date. In addition, through three quarters, we have returned over 100% of net income
in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
Going into the fourth quarter, with three consecutive quarters of earnings per share growth and the peak preparations
that Alan talked about this morning, we are confident in achieving our full year 2015 guidance.
That concludes our prepared remarks. Now, I would ask the operator to open the lines. Operator?
Q&A
Operator
We'll now begin the question-and-answer period. [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of
Ken Hoexter of Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.
<Q - Kenneth Scott Hoexter>: Great, good morning. If I could just follow up on the outlook for a moment, your EPS
jumps from kind of mid-single digits to the low teens in the fourth quarter, if we take, kind of, the top end of your
range. But you noted U.S. volume growth is going to be 4% to 5% next quarter, after ground volume declined for the
first time in, I don't know, 16 quarters, 18 quarters or so. Can you maybe talk about what's in that, in the expectation,
what you see in the market? Is that just driven by B2C outpacing the B2B, or do you expect a pickup in the economy?
Just want to understand what's built into your outlook.
Company Name: UPS
Company Ticker: UPS US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 15
<A - Richard N. Peretz>: Sure, Ken, good morning. This is Richard. When we look at where our guidance is, we look
at both internal and external factors. And, obviously, we have a mixed bag in the economy with the negative IP, the last
quarter and it doesn't look like that's changing going into the fourth quarter. However, at the same time, you have B2C
that looks like it's going to have a solid quarter. E-commerce is still expected to be strong. And when you look
internally, we look at what are we doing, the preparation. We're making all the right moves. We made the adjustments
in our operations to calibrate the expectations of what our customers are expecting. We're working with the customers
to ensure that the volume comes in on the times we're expecting – the days of the week. And we've aligned our revenue
and costs.
And so when you put all those factors together, we expect that our bottom line growth will come and that our company
performance for the last three quarters will continue into the fourth quarter.
<Q - Kenneth Scott Hoexter>: Thanks, Richard. Appreciate it.
Operator
We have a question from the line of Tom Wadewitz of UBS. Please go ahead.
<Q - Thomas Wadewitz>: Yes, I wondered if you could comment a little bit on – I mean I know you were asked about
the fourth quarter, but just a maybe broader comment on how you see the economy developing. Did it get weaker
within third quarter, or it was kind of just stable at a lower level in terms of B2B? And do you kind of think that that's
going to continue to deteriorate, or is it just a little bit of a lower level in terms of – I think there are a couple of
different areas where you saw a bit of a change, so obviously Domestic B2B, and then International export, I know you
had yield management. But I guess those were the two areas [ph] in LCR (22:42) where it seemed like there was
additional weakness in the economy; so, maybe a little more commentary to understand that – kind of how that
developed and the outlook on that. Thank you.
<A - David P. Abney>: Okay. Good morning, Tom. This is David and I'm going to take the first part of this question
and then I'll hand it over to Alan to talk a little bit from our customer base. But we have seen some softness in the U.S.
economy and in the third quarter B2B faded a little bit. And really we just see mixed signals. And we are seeing growth
from the consumer sides of B2B, especially online retail continues to outpace overall retail.
But there is definitely softness in the manufacturing sectors. International production, as we talked about in the second
quarter, declined. In the third quarter, we've seen acceleration of that decline. And we do estimate that IP is going to be
negative in the fourth quarter. Part of that's the continued strength of the dollar, certainly affecting exports, and then
there's just soft global demand, whether it be in China, Asia, or wherever. So that's what we're seeing across the U.S.
economy. Again, it's mixed.
Alan, would you like to talk a little bit about the customer base?
<A - Alan Gershenhorn>: Yes, thanks, David. I guess first, like Rich said, we're seeing continual improvement in the
B2C, so quarter-over-quarter, first quarter to third quarter, our B2C results continued to improve in terms of volume
growth, and that's even with some tough comps from last year on some SurePost wins in the third quarter. We're also
seeing very positive growth in our air products; Next Day Air grew 4% and our Deferred products are growing double
digit again, despite tougher year-over-year comps, so we think on the B2C side for peak season that we're sitting really
well in terms of what the growth projections are, and we're going to finish the year in line with the volume expectations
we set out at the beginning of the year. Thanks.
Operator
Question from the line of Ben Hartford of Baird. Please go ahead.
Company Name: UPS
Company Ticker: UPS US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 15
<Q - Ben J. Hartford>: Yes, thanks, good morning. Alan, maybe just continuing that point in the context of some of
the weakness that you've seen domestically and globally during the third quarter, Domestic yields continued to be
strong. Obviously, there's an effort here this year to drive yields higher. How confident are you that that bias can
continue, that we can continue to see strong yield growth, obviously not necessarily in the fourth quarter, but in 2016, if
we do continue on this trajectory of soft economic growth domestically and globally?
<A - Alan Gershenhorn>: Well, let me just say that first, our rate change for 2016 is in line with what we've done
historically, as well as in line with the market. So, we implemented the dim weight this year, and we'll be lapping that
next year. We're confident that the value that we're creating for our customers along with ensuring they understand why
we need to increase those prices based on the value and the solutions we're providing for them, that we're expecting
some strong yield results in the fourth quarter and into 2016.
<A - David P. Abney>: And we certainly have a focus on yield. We have had all year, but just want to remind
everyone that we are always looking for prudent balance between volume and yield, and of course, the ultimate goal is
to grow the long-term economic profit. Thank you.
Operator
And our next question is from Tom Kim of Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
<Q - Tom Kim>: Good morning, and thanks for your time here. You've talked a lot about some very encouraging
strategies around improving the peak season execution and your capacity and price initiatives are certainly well noted. I
guess the one thing that wasn't entirely clear to me was your willingness to limit volumes around sort of peak season
surge days, and I'm wondering to what extent are you willing to walk away from business, should demand exceed your
expectations and your customers? Thanks.
<A - Alan Gershenhorn>: Yes, so, like last year, we're going to be beefing up our control tower for [audio gap]
(27:42) and that control tower is going to allow us to work together with our customers to maximize the value we
provide and reduce the total cost. So the bottom line is, the idea here is to optimize the network capacity and it's going
to allow UPS to say yes more to our customers for the unplanned volume.
Operator
Our next question will be from David Vernon of Bernstein. Please go ahead.
<Q - J. David Scott Vernon>: Hi, good morning, and thanks for taking the question. Maybe, David or Richard, as you
think about the longer-term outlook on the Domestic margin side, obviously we've seen a little bit of pressure now, and
we saw some with the implementation costs, fuel is a little bit of a headwind. How confident are you that we're at a
point where the productivity initiatives and maybe the better market discipline or better pricing in the Domestic
segment is going to allow you to put a floor under that Domestic margin and avoid any further margin compression
over the next couple of years?
<A - Richard N. Peretz>: Sure. David, this is Richard, and I'll take it and then in a minute I'll turn it over to Myron to
talk a little bit about some of what's going on. We're making the improvements that we guided when we spoke last
November. We talked about a multiyear process and we're making those improvements in our operations. And at the
same time, we're balancing the alignment of cost and revenue together. And as we've done that, we've got ORION with
70% of our drivers this peak. And so that will continue into 2016. We have the multiyear hub update and replacement
that we'll be doing.
So, putting it all together, we're right in the line with where we expected we'd be right now. And we're working to the
same plan that we covered with you guys just about a year ago. And with that, I'll turn it over to Myron to talk a little
bit about what's going on operationally right now.
Company Name: UPS
Company Ticker: UPS US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 15
<A - Myron A. Gray>: So, this fourth quarter and moving forward, the underlying factors to maintain good margin
growth will be additional capacity, enhancing our customer experience, and, of course, cost control.
And I'll start with cost control first. Richard just alluded to the continued deployment of technology in our field
operations. And as he alluded to, we expect to have 70% of our drivers deployed on ORION this year and we'll
complete that by the end of 2016. And our progress to date continues to show very good progress.
We'll also continue to modernize our hubs. We plan to fully automate our top Tier 1 hubs over the course of the next
five years. And in addition to that, we'll continue to deploy technology in our inside operations to help control costs, as
well.
Alan has alluded to the deployment of Access Point. This year, by the end of year, we expect to have over 8,000 Access
Points in the U.S., which helps us to improve delivery density, which also is a cost control measure, but at the same
time enhance our customer experience. So we're very confident that, moving forward, we can continue to extract costs,
improve the experience of our customers and have a good profit margin in the U.S.
Operator
Our next question will come from the line of Brandon Oglenski of Barclays. Please go ahead.
<Q - Brandon Robert Oglenski>: Hey, good morning, everyone, and thanks for taking my question here. So, I want
to come back to the fourth quarter, because obviously there's a lot of implicit volatility built in here, just given the
outcomes of peak. And, David or Myron, I mean, there's a lot of uncertainty heading into 4Q, just with the economy
and you even have some labor issues with your pilots. I know that Teamsters have talked about that, as well. But let's
just say that things are better or even worse. So, what's the flexibility on the cost structure right now, with this peak
season capacity? And are some of these things concerning where you're going to have flexibility to dial that back, or is
it pretty much locked in at this point from a cost perspective?
<A - Myron A. Gray>: So, Brandon, let me start with your first question first. We're confident the negotiations will be
completed with our pilots without any disruption to our customers, just as it has been in the previous four negotiations
with our pilots. UPS and the IPA are still bargaining in good faith at the table under the direction of the National
Mediation Board. In that vein, it's not possible for a strike without the NMB's permission. And even if they were to
give permission, it would only be given after exhausting [ph] a lengthy (32:43) series of safeguards. And the next round
of negotiations is already scheduled in November and December.
In regards to cost containment in the fourth quarter, we're certain that we can adjust the network and be flexible enough
to take the costs out. For example, while we have added capacity of 6% across the network, we'll have 35% fewer sort
days than last year, even though we'll have 44 additional sorts. We're able to accomplish that by starting the sorts much
later in the season than a year ago.
Last year, the work day that we had with Black Friday operations, we felt like the delivery network was underutilized
and we're making the needed adjustments there. Our purchased transportation expense should be considerably less than
a year ago, based on our acquisition of Coyote. So, we're also going to have improved production with our drivers.
We're tightening up our dispatch. We'll bring helpers on at the same rate as we did last year, but we're bringing them on
much later and we'll extend our drivers' day to reduce overtime.
<A - David P. Abney>: To just wrap up that question, we certainly have a good plan that we've worked on all year. We
know there's going to be audibles that are going to occur, different conditions, and we believe we have the flexibility to
respond to those. Most of that flexibility is in this multi-pronged strategy that we've talked about; really been working
hard with our customers collaborating. This control tower that you've heard us talk about is going to help us say yes,
and how to many customers. On those last few days, though, if we have customers that greatly exceed the amount of
volume that they have committed to us, then we certainly would be willing to enforce caps, but that's not our intention.
Company Name: UPS
Company Ticker: UPS US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 15
Our intention is to work with customers on how we can move volume around in earlier days or take advantage of
weekends. And then this increased technology that we keep adding is just going to give us a lot more flexibility,
including Access Points, ORION and the other things that you've talked about. The good thing about all this is it gives
us year-round flexibility, as well as helps us flex for peak, so we're confident that we have a plan and that we're going
to execute to that plan. Thank you.
Operator
Nate Brochmann, William Blair, please go ahead.
<Q - Nate J. Brochmann>: Yes, good morning. Thanks for taking the question. I found it interesting that we saw the
pickup in the air business, and I'm assuming part of that is that some of those B2C customers are needing increased
service levels, which might be a little bit of shift away from everybody just worrying about the lowest price point. I was
wondering if you're seeing a real trend there and if that's an opportunity then longer-term to gain market share away
from some other potential vendors that can't offer that kind of same level of service.
<A - Alan Gershenhorn>: Yes, hey, Nate, thanks for the question. This is Alan. Yes, we are, in fact, seeing strong
growth in the Next Day Air and Deferred products and it is driven largely by e-commerce. And specifically in that area
we believe we are gaining market share. And earlier, I think David, in his opening remarks, talked about the expansion
of our time of day delivery commitments for Worldwide Express, and we've done the same for Next Day Air and our
Early A.M. and Express Plus products and we have the leading coverage in the United States by time of day, and
certainly worldwide, and we're continuing to focus on being the leader in that area. Thanks.
Operator
Question from the line of Chris Wetherbee of Citi. Please go ahead.
<Q - Chris Wetherbee>: Hey, thanks, good morning. Wanted to come back to some of the comments around peak and
sort of the outlook for about 10% growth during the peak season relative to Myron's comment about 6% capacity. I
don't know if those are apples to apples sort of numbers, but just want to get a rough sense as for to how you guys think
about balancing that equation of growth relative to the existing capacity? I would have maybe expected those numbers
to be a little bit closer, but maybe there's something I'm missing there. If you could give us some color, that would be
great.
<A - Alan Gershenhorn>: Yes, this is Alan. I'll take the first part of that and I'll turn it over to Myron to speak
specifically about the capacity. You've got to remember that we have one more day than last year to spread that volume
out a little bit, and as far as the growth goes, again, on the B2C side of the business, we are experiencing
quarter-over-quarter growth in that regard. So we're pretty confident with what the projections are for e-commerce sales
in the market and what our customers are telling us that we're going to be seeing that 10% volume growth between
Thanksgiving and New Year's Eve.
Myron?
<A - Myron A. Gray>: So in addition to that, the 6% capacity is a network number, spanning our ground
transportation as well as the air. So on the ground, we've concentrated on 10 specific projects that encompass both
automation, modernization or expansion of our facilities. We opened two brand new air sorts, one in Ontario,
California, as well as one in Columbia, South Carolina. We added additional capacity in Dallas, Texas. If you'll recall,
last year we opened a brand new facility with 20,000 an hour capacity. That's since been expanded to 40,000 an hour.
We modernized one of our hubs in Chicago, Illinois. And in addition to that, when you look at Worldport, where
obviously, is our air home, we've added additional capacity to increase our feeder-only, which is our long trailer unload
capacity from 70,000 an hour to 100,000 an hour. And going back to Alan's opening statement, if you'll recall, that our
retailers are expecting about 4% overall growth during the period. So, we think we're fully covered.
Company Name: UPS
Company Ticker: UPS US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 15
Operator
Art Hatfield of Raymond James, please go ahead.
<Q - Art W. Hatfield>: Hey, morning, thanks for taking my question. Just a quick question on the LTL segment; can
you elaborate on your comment about selective pricing initiatives? Is that you trying to push price higher within your
book, or are you seeing competitive actions by other people in the industry?
<A - Myron A. Gray>: We've seen rate action being taken by everyone in the industry, but specifically for UPS
Freight, we've worked to shed some unprofitable customers all year long, so we'll continue to do that by focusing on
the small package market, specifically, as working very diligently with Coyote.
Operator
Scott Schneeberger of Oppenheimer. Please go ahead.
<Q - Scott A. Schneeberger>: Thanks, good morning. With regard to dimensional weight pricing, could you please
elaborate on what benefit or revenue contribution you expect this year and how it's going to contribute in, from your
conversation, in the peak season? And then just as a follow-on there, you mentioned larger packages getting priced
higher, too. Is that having any effect on your capacity? Thanks.
<A - Alan Gershenhorn>: Yes, so we're still projecting our yields to be at the higher end of the 2% to 3%. We
certainly came in that way in the third quarter. And we're expecting similar results for the remainder of the year. And
it's really a combination of dim weight, the GRI, and also selective pricing actions with customers. And certainly we've
noticed an uptick in the amount of large packages in our system, and we're making sure that we're being compensated
appropriately for the value that we're seeing with those packages.
Operator
A question from the line of Scott Group of Wolfe Research. Please go ahead.
<Q - Scott H. Group>: Hey, thanks. Morning, guys. So, want to go back to just the fourth quarter guidance; so, if I
look at low double digit operating income growth in the U.S., that implies pretty flat sequential earnings, at least U.S.
package earnings, from third quarter to fourth quarter. So, we typically see a lot better than that outside of the past two
years. So, I guess my question is, do you feel like there's conservatism in that low double digit guidance, or is it that
even with the changes that we've made for peak this year, something has changed and we're not expecting to see much
sequential improvement in earnings from 3Q to 4Q anymore?
<A - Richard N. Peretz>: Scott, this is Richard. And, first of all, when we think about our fourth quarter number, there
is growth in all three segments, as we talked earlier; actually I think in my talk, I said that there's going to be double
digit growth in profit for all three segments of our business. And part of that is because we spent the last year working
in our peak plans that Myron's talked about and David and Alan this morning, but in the third quarter we also talked a
little bit about the economy and what was going on with it. And we still feel that peak season will be strong because of
the growth of e-commerce, and that's reflected in the guidance, and the guidance does have the total company actually
growing in double digit growth in profits for the fourth quarter, as well. Thank you.
<A - David P. Abney>: Hey, Scott, it's David. When you talk about peak seasons of the past, just have to remember
that prior to this big growth in B2C, e-commerce, that our average peak day was increasing volume, well, somewhere
around 50% over a typical day. Now with e-commerce, last year, we approached 75% over, so the nature of the
business has changed. We certainly see – we're going to see big improvements over last year, but the relationship
between third quarter and fourth quarter has just migrated a little bit, just over this B2C growth. Thank you.
Company Name: UPS
Company Ticker: UPS US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 15
Operator
And Jeff Kauffman of Buckingham Research, please go ahead.
<Q - Jeffrey Kauffman>: Thank you very much, and congratulations. I want to follow up on Scott's question; did I
hear correctly that you said the package margins could be the strongest of the year in fourth quarter?
<A - Richard N. Peretz>: No, what I actually said was that our profit level will be the highest in the year in the fourth
quarter.
<Q - Jeffrey Kauffman>: Okay, so profit level. And then I just want to hit International margins. Now, normally, the
seasonal change is about 200 basis points, 250 basis points stronger, fourth quarter versus third quarter on the
International side, which would imply a pretty big number on the International margins. You did mention slowing in
the global economy. Is it possible that you could be looking at kind of 18%, 19% margins on the International product,
or is there a reason why that normal seasonal margin difference would not happen?
<A - Richard N. Peretz>: So, Jeff, if you look across the year, we've actually had about the same margins all year and
we don't expect that to change. At the end of the day we're balancing our strategy around revenue management and
growing the business with what's going on around the globe in the economy and it is changing a little bit. But that's not
really changing where we think we'll be, and at the end of the day, the fourth quarter, we expect to be at the high end of
the guidance for what we've given on International.
<Q - Jeffrey Kauffman>: Okay, and the impact to Coyote on SCS in the fourth quarter, is that going to show more as
a benefit to the SCS margins or is that going to show more as a benefit to the package margins, as you're going to be
using them as a capacity source for the holidays this year?
<A - Joe Wilkins>: Hey, Jeff, this is Joe. We're going to just take the one question and then you can come back in,
okay?
<Q - Jeffrey Kauffman>: Okay, of course.
<A - Joe Wilkins>: Thanks. And one other thing, too, just while I've kind of cut in here, just so you know, at 9:20 a.m.
today there's going to be a peak season press release that goes out that kind of summarizes what Alan just said. Just so
you're aware of that during the call if the press release hits, it's not anything new, it's just a summary. So, we'll go to the
next question. Thanks, Jeff.
Operator
Alex Vecchio of Morgan Stanley, please go ahead.
<Q - Alexander Vecchio>: Hey there, good morning. Thanks for taking the question. So there's obviously been
increasing reports out there, recently about Amazon and their efforts to develop their own full-blown transportation
network. So, maybe, David or Myron, you don't have to comment on Amazon specifically, but can you maybe kind of
talk to how you see the parcel competitive landscape evolving over the next few years? And how do you make sure that
you're guarding against the potential outcome where your customers might increasingly become competitors?
<A - Alan Gershenhorn>: Yes, hey, this is Alan, Alex, thanks for the question. Look, I think we've been successful
because of our integrated network that creates the efficiencies and the value proposition. It's very difficult to match.
And you've got to keep in mind that that's from pickup through delivery, right, where we're almost making a million
pickups a day and obviously delivering millions of packages a day. And our customers are actually receiving the
benefit of that scale efficiency of the integrated network.
At the same time, we're cognizant of the competition out there, as well as investing in new technologies to improve
both service and efficiency. You're well aware of some of the things we're doing on the e-commerce side with UPS My
Choice, UPS Access Point, UPS SurePost, UPS SurePost Redirect, our synchronized delivery service, i-parcel, so on
Company Name: UPS
Company Ticker: UPS US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 15
and so forth, so we're continuing to monitor the space, but not only monitor the space, execute and continue to hone our
offering to ensure it's the best in the business.
<A - David P. Abney>: So the key to us is really just focusing on value to our customers. We have unmatched
capabilities in systems and people, and if we stay focused on taking care of the needs of our customers and on
providing that value, then we don't have to worry nearly as much about what the competitors are doing, because we're
listening to our customers and focusing on that value. Thank you.
Operator
Allison Landry of Credit Suisse, please go ahead.
<Q - Allison M. Landry>: Good morning, thank you. I was wondering if you could talk about the recently announced
third-party fees that are being imposed on retailers that are using the account of a larger entity to basically gain more
favorable rates. Has this been an increasing trend you've seen amongst your smaller customer base over the last few
years? And could you give us a sense of what percentage of your business that this surcharge applies to?
<A - Alan Gershenhorn>: Yes, Allison, first, it is increasing amongst the customer base. And it's a very valuable
service that's in high demand. And we certainly want to continuing offering that service and expand it with customers
that use it today. And really no one out there provides better third-party pickup service than UPS, from the planning,
the implementation, and the execution.
And, for shippers, what it does is it can be very significant to them in terms of inventory, handling, and transportation
savings associated with the service, as well as an ability for them to offer a broader line of products to both businesses
and household consumers. So, that's what we're really looking at out there, with the third-party billing service. Thanks.
Operator
Rob Salmon of Deutsche Bank, please go ahead.
<Q - Robert H. Salmon>: Hey, good morning, and thanks for taking my question. If I could turn the discussion back a
little bit to the cost side, within the U.S. Domestic package segment, clearly we've had kind of two major changes, as
I'm looking at the landscape. One is that rail services has improved quite a bit from a year ago and more so from two
years ago. And in addition, you guys have got the now completed acquisition of Coyote.
So if you could talk a little bit about kind of what the optimal rail mix is as part of your purchased transportation
network, what that looked like in 2013 and 2014, and provide some comments about how you see Coyote changing
your truckload needs, whether it be from a pricing or from kind of an optimal mix perspective for UPS. Thanks.
<A - David P. Abney>: Okay, thank you. First, I would say that when you start talking about especially 2013, a little
bit of 2014, our balance between rail and road did have to change, and it had to change because the rails had serious
operating problems. Part of it was too much volume. Part of it was infrastructure, and we have always valued, on the
service that we can give our customers. That service started being threatened a little bit with the rail difficulties. So, we
put business on the road. And now we have seen that the rails have improved and they can provide the service that we
need. And when they do that, it makes it easier to put some of that business on the rails.
And also, with this acquisition that we just completed, that's one of the areas that Coyote can help us on, especially
during peak, when it comes to putting additional loads on the road, is that's something that they can provide and help us
decide the best company to use, the best agent, the best way to backfill. So we think it's one of the real value points that
they bring and it's one of the key synergy areas when we decided to do the deal. And the Coyote acquisition is going
very well. It's according to plan. Our customers and employees are reacting very positive. And we do believe they're
going to help us make a difference during peak of this year. Thank you.
Company Name: UPS
Company Ticker: UPS US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 15
Operator
And we have a question from the line of David Ross of Stifel. Please go ahead.
<Q - David G. Ross>: Yes, good morning, gentlemen. Wanted to talk about the Forwarding segment for a second; on
the last call, you mentioned that Transpack Air Freight market was pretty good and you saw some favorable buy rates.
Did you see those buy rates remain in 3Q? And any commentary you can give around just Transpack Air Freight
volumes would be great. Thank you.
<A - James Jay Barber, Jr.>: Okay, David, it's Jim. A couple of things, I guess, the quarter we just finished and kind
of looking forward at the same time. What we saw in the third quarter was really just an expansion of the supply in the
market. We saw it collectively, globally going up about 4%. Demand is not keeping pace with that, hence the market
conditions that you just referenced. If you move into the fourth quarter, what we see is it really depends on the lane
you're talking about. APAC to the U.S. we think will be strong; APAC to Europe, not so. Middle East will be strong.
So, it really depends on the mix of the freight and where you have it, relative to the question about supply and demand.
But obviously the Forwarding numbers for the third quarter as a business were very strong relative to our strategy.
We'll continue that in the fourth quarter.
Operator
Our next question will come from the line of Bascome Majors of Susquehanna. Please go ahead.
<Q - Bascome Majors>: Yes, thanks for taking my question here. A lot of questions on peak, but looking beyond the
peak into 2016, what critical variables are out there that could put you above or below your longer-term expected EPS
growth rate of 9% to 13%? And generally speaking, from where we sit today, do you think this range is going to be
appropriate for next year?
<A - Richard N. Peretz>: Sure, and this is Richard. When we look at our guidance, and when we set our guidance for
this year and last year, when we talked about the five years, the variables are obviously the economy and what's
happening externally in the economy. And at the same time, that's why there's a range. At this point, given everything
we're doing internally to create network efficiencies and manage our – and ensure that our costs and revenues are
aligned properly, is we see a structural change in some of the volume mix. We think the range is appropriate. We
expect it will continue and next quarter we'll talk about 2016.
Operator
Our next question will come from the line of John Barnes of RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.
<Q - John Barnes>: Hey, good morning. Thanks for taking my question. Just with your commentary around the global
outlook and some softness domestically, and I recognize that the assets you're investing in are long-lived assets, but can
you just talk a little bit about how you're balancing maybe the capital spending going forward, based on what you're
seeing? You've talked about the billion dollars of potential investment in Europe, and just some of those dollars and
how they're allocated given what you're painting as a pretty soft backdrop. Thanks.
<A - Richard N. Peretz>: Sure, John, this is Richard again. When we think about our investments, we're not thinking
about what's happening in the next six months, but it's really what's going to happen for the next 10 years. And we're
investing to continue to grow this business in the long-term, and so when we're thinking about those assets, are there
slight tweaks? Yes, year-to-year we might make some decisions that are more ad-hoc, but for the most part it's a
longer-term process.
We started the year I think closer to $3 billion as CapEx and I think right now we think it's closer to $2.8 billion for the
year. That's a slight change, but that's not changing our reinvestment in automated buildings and making the network as
Company Name: UPS
Company Ticker: UPS US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 15
efficient as possible because as we do that we also bring down our operating costs and so that helps our value
proposition to our customers, and we think that in the long run, we'll continue to keep investing to make sure that this
business keeps growing as strong and as fast as we can get it to grow.
Operator
Due to time constraints, our last question will come from the line of Kelly Dougherty of Macquarie, followed by
closing remarks from the panel. Please go ahead.
<Q - Kelly A. Dougherty>: Good morning, guys, thanks. Obviously, Europe has been a pretty strong story for you
guys, so I just wanted to talk about how you think about growth in Europe, assuming FedEx-TNT goes ahead as
expected. Does it change your game plan at all, or maybe, perhaps open up some additional opportunities for share
gains between now and then?
And then if you could comment maybe on what the pricing environment looks like in Europe; obviously it's pretty
stable in the U.S., but you hear at least some pockets of it maybe not being quite as rational over in Europe.
<A - David P. Abney>: Okay, this is David. We've been in Europe almost 40 years, and we continue to see great
opportunity there and we've been growing our business at a rapid rate, and we continue to believe we will do so.
Nothing has changed our strategy to invest and to grow, and to grow at a pace exceeding the market rate. So, yes, we
are investing more than $2 billion in Europe, which we announced last year, and we are executing on that strategy. It's
a lot about adding capacity. It's about modernizing our business. It's about implementing technology, all of the things
that you would do if you've got a very growing, vibrant business. So we feel very comfortable about Europe.
Jim, you want to follow up on a couple of things?
<A - James Jay Barber, Jr.>: I think two points worth mentioning, Kelly. First, if you've seen the quarter, we just
came through internationally, you saw the volume was down a little bit, but the revenue, when you clean it up for
currency and fuel, was up 3.8%. So that really speaks to the pricing environment and the rationality as far as we go to
market. Obviously, we have to do that in a competitive landscape but we feel like we're doing that pretty well.
And the other comment worth mentioning is this quarter we just finished our strongest yield improvement in our
Domestic product in over two years. So those two points for us tend to point to a market that we believe is really kind
of in a balanced growth market, but we believe we have to strike the right price to go to market and we'll continue to do
that. Thanks.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our conference call for today. On behalf of today's panel, we'd like to thank
you for your participation in today's teleconference call. And thank you.
<A - Joe Wilkins>: Steven?
Operator
Yes, sir?
<A - Joe Wilkins>: We are going to have closing comments by David Abney.
Operator
All right. Please go ahead, Mr. Abney.
Company Name: UPS
Company Ticker: UPS US
Date: 2015-10-27
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 15
<A - Joe Wilkins>: Thanks, David.
David P. Abney
Okay. Well, first I'd like to thank everyone for their interest in our company and for your questions. Just would like to
emphasize that, again, this time our quarter was in line with our expectations. We felt good. It was a solid quarter.
Year-to-date, all three quarters so far have been in line and we've either met or exceeded expectations. That momentum
gives us confidence in peak season. We have good plans. We have the people to execute those plans and we have the
discipline to do that.
And once we do those three things, then we'll see a successful peak season and a successful fourth quarter. We'd like to
thank our people in advance, because I know they're going to make that happen. And just look forward to the call in
February. Thank you very much.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.