Company Name: Bank of New York
Company Ticker: BK US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 16
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Valerie C. Haertel
• Gerald L. Hassell
• Thomas P. Gibbons
• Curtis Yates Arledge
• Brian Thomas Shea
Other Participants
• Ashley Neil Serrao
• Elizabeth Lynn Graseck
• Luke Montgomery
• Glenn Paul Schorr
• Alexander V. Blostein
• Kenneth M. Usdin
• Brian B. Bedell
• Brennan McHugh Hawken
• Mike L. Mayo
• James F. Mitchell
• Adam Q. Beatty
• Gerard S. Cassidy
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the third quarter 2015 earnings conference call hosted by BNY
Mellon.
At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct question-and-answer session. Please note
that this conference call and webcast will be recorded and it will consist of copyrighted material. You may not record
or rebroadcast those materials without BNY Mellon's consent.
I will now turn the call over to Ms. Valerie Haertel. Ms. Haertel, you may begin.
Valerie C. Haertel
Thank you, Anna, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to the BNY Mellon third quarter 2015 earnings conference
call.
With us today are Gerald Hassell, our Chairman and CEO; Todd Gibbons, our CFO; as well as members of our
executive management team.
Our third quarter earnings materials include a financial highlights presentation that will be referred to in the discussion
of our results, and can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Company Name: Bank of New York
Company Ticker: BK US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 16
Before Gerald and Todd begin, let me take a moment to remind you that our remarks today may include
forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by forward-looking
statements as a result of various factors. These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement in the
earnings press release, the financial highlights presentation and those identified in our documents filed with the SEC
that are available on our website at bnymellon.com.
Forward-looking statements in this call speak only as of today, October 20, 2015 and we will not update
forward-looking statements.
Now, I would like to turn the call over to Gerald Hassell. Gerald?
Gerald L. Hassell
Thanks, Valerie. Welcome, everyone, and thank you for joining us this morning. Our results demonstrate our focus on
delivering significant value for our clients and shareholders in all market environments. Given the global market
instability and continued low-interest rates, it has been an exceedingly challenging revenue environment, so we remain
laser-focused on the key priorities we discussed with you at our Investor Day a year ago. We are executing our strategic
plan, which is enabling us to deliver solid results in line with our three-year financial goals.
For the quarter, we again controlled our expenses while continuing to make strategic investments to enhance client
service delivery as well as improving our technology platforms and capabilities to drive future revenue growth. In
addition, we're making ongoing investments in risk management and regulatory compliance practices.
So turning to earnings: earnings per share were $0.74, up 16% on an adjusted basis, which excludes the third quarter
2014 sale of our equity investment in Wing Hang Bank and our One Wall Street headquarters. It's also net of litigation
and restructuring charges.
Now, focusing on the year-over-year comparisons, on an adjusted basis. We generated more than 370 basis points of
positive operating leverage and improved our pre-tax operating margin to 31%. Total revenue was up 1% as growth in
Investment Services, including contributions from our volume- and volatility-sensitive businesses was largely offset by
softness in investment management, which was negatively impacted by the strong dollar as well as declines in equity
market values globally. Net interest revenue was up 5% and total expenses were down 3%, and our return on tangible
common equity in the quarter was 21%.
So looking at our progress against our strategic priorities, our first priority is driving profitable revenue growth. We are
working to deepen our client relationships and grow revenues, but we are also maintaining our pricing discipline when
competing in the marketplace.
Now, during the quarter, revenue in Investment Services again benefited from growth in Global Collateral Services and
Asset Servicing. We also on-boarded nearly 230 new staff during the quarter in association with the mid-office services
of T. Rowe Price that we are taking on. This strategic relationship further endorses the market demand for our expertise
and platform capability.
Foreign exchange revenue was also up strongly year-over-year, as we continue to benefit from both higher volumes
captured through the expansion of our services and higher volatility.
Investment management revenue reflected the reset in the equity markets and the impact of the strong dollar. That said,
the diversity of our investment management business combined with our growth initiatives and business improvement
efforts helped mitigate the market impact on our financial results. On a constant currency basis, investment
management fees were flat year-over-year.
Our LDI strategies continue to see strong inflows, reflecting continued client demand. And we also saw some good
momentum in fixed income, and our alternative strategies. Our initiatives to align our investment management portfolio
to the largest growth pools are delivering results. Our U.S. retail initiative, which is focused on third-party intermediary
advisors and expanding the Dreyfus distribution platform, is contributing to our results as is our wealth management
Company Name: Bank of New York
Company Ticker: BK US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 16
sales force expansion, which has built a strong pipeline and is benefiting from the growing synergies with our Pershing
business.
Our second broad priority is executing on our business improvement process, to leverage our scale and expertise to
deliver efficiency benefits to clients, while reducing our structural costs. Our success on this front is reflected not only
in lower expenses in nearly all categories, but in our industry-leading market positions across all of our businesses.
Now, some highlights of our business improvement program include: the sale of Meriten, our German-based boutique,
where we had a marginally profitable business and identified the opportunity to better redeploy our capital. That closed
in the third quarter. We've realigned our U.K. transfer agency's operating model to improve its profitability.
We've created a new client pricing strategy group to develop, analyze and measure service delivery costs to better align
our costs with our client pricing. We've implemented an automated process to measure market data usage to identify
opportunities to reduce the number of pricing seats and terminals. And we've created what we call My Dashboard,
which improves employee productivity as part of our digitization strategy.
Now, My Dashboard provides our managers with a convenient snapshot of key data on their employees such as
expenses, performance measurement status, training and other key metrics. The capability was recently named Best
New Digital Project for Financial Services as part of the Gartner Financial Services Cool Business Awards.
Now, we've also been analyzing our current real estate portfolio to reduce costs. We are selecting locations and
workplace standards that enable collaboration and innovation. During the quarter, we completed our exit from One
Wall Street ahead of schedule. We now occupy our new, more cost-efficient headquarters at 225 Liberty Street. We're
taking a very similar approach across many of our locations globally, which will help reduce our real estate footprint.
Now, given the more difficult than expected equity markets, it will be critical for us to keep driving efficiencies to meet
our Investor Day goals. To that end, we continue to identify additional opportunities to reduce corporate overhead and
to leverage scale and operations, technology, and distribution in both Investment Services and investment management,
while continuing to deliver a high level of service to our clients. Many of our efforts are singles and doubles, but
they've been adding up, helping us fund some of our revenue growth initiatives and increasing regulatory compliance
costs.
Our third priority centers on being a strong, safe, trusted counterparty. We continue to have among the highest credit
ratings in the industry. This quarter, our credit ratings were affirmed by the rating agencies, including our A1 rating
from Moody's.
Now, during the quarter, we implemented a new system to meet the Volcker reporting requirements and completed a
program to measure and monitor intraday credit risk exposure. We also establish a more granular and rigorous CCAR
approach that strengthens our capital adequacy process. Our business improvement process has helped us fund some of
these enhancements.
Our fourth priority involves generating excess capital and deploying it effectively. We remain focused on maintaining a
strong balance sheet and capital and liquidity position.
With respect to our capital ratios, we are pleased to report progress towards achieving compliance with a
supplementary leverage ratio, which increased to 4.8% this quarter. As a reminder, SLR is expected to be effective at
the beginning of 2018, and we are on a good path to meet the requirement by then.
Now, in accordance with our 2015 capital plan, which authorized us to return up to $3.1 billion to our shareholders, we
repurchased $690 million in shares and distributed $190 million in dividends during the quarter. Year-to-date, we have
repurchased more than $1.9 billion in shares and distributed nearly $575 million in dividends.
Our fifth priority is to attract, develop, and retain top talent. Across our organization, we've been enhancing our talent
strategies and culture to ensure we have the right people in the right jobs. Great talent enhances our ability to win. This
quarter, we named a new President of our Markets Group, Michelle Neal, who starts next month. She exemplifies the
kind of talent we've been attracting and developing in our organization. Michelle has a special combination of
Company Name: Bank of New York
Company Ticker: BK US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 16
experience in electronic trading and settlement and she is well-equipped to continue to drive the Markets Group's
strong performance and we are very pleased to welcome her to our team.
Now, as we look ahead, we remain confident in our ability to achieve the three-year financial targets we shared with
you on Investor Day a year ago.
With that, let me turn it over to Todd.
Thomas P. Gibbons
Thanks, Gerald, and good morning, everyone. My commentary will follow the financial highlights documents starting
with page seven, which details our non-GAAP or what we call our operating results for the quarter.
As Gerald noted, EPS was $0.74, that's up 16% year-over-year on an adjusted basis. Now adjusted excludes the sale of
our equity investment in Wing Hang and the sale of One Wall Street and is also net of litigation and restructuring
charges.
Revenue in the third quarter was up 1% year-over-year, reflecting strength in Asset Servicing, especially Global
Collateral Services, as well as in clearing, foreign exchange and financing-related activities. It was offset by the impact
of the stronger dollar and lower equity markets especially on our investment management business.
Expenses were down 3% year-over-year. Our success in lowering legal and consulting expenses and in wringing
savings from our business improvement process as well as the stronger dollar are driving lower expenses in almost
every category. Combination of our revenue mix and ability to control expenses through the business improvement
process resulted in more than 370 basis points of positive operating leverage year-over-year.
On page six of our earnings release, you can see the key currencies that impact our business, the strength of the U.S.
dollar against the pound and the euro, which were down 7% and 17% respectively, continued to impact investment
management more than our other businesses, since 42% of their revenue is from outside the U.S. As we have noted in
prior quarters, the overall company impact from currency translation is nominal. Adjusted for the stronger U.S. dollar,
revenue would have been up approximately 4% and expenses up approximately 1%.
Income before taxes was 8% year-over-year on an adjusted basis and is up 10.5% if you exclude the provision for
credit losses. On a year-over-year basis, our pre-tax margin increased approximately 200 basis points to 31% in the
third quarter of 2015. And finally, return on tangible common equity was 21%.
Page eight shows our consolidated fee and other revenue. Asset Servicing fees were up 3% year-over-year and flat
sequentially. The year-over-year increase primarily reflects organic growth in Global Collateral Services, our
Broker-Dealer activities, and Asset Servicing, and net new business, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of the
stronger U.S. dollar. Sequentially, organic growth and net new business was offset by the typical seasonal step-down in
securities lending revenue as well as lower market values.
Clearing services fees were up 2% year-over-year, down 1% sequentially. The year-over-year increase was primarily
driven by higher mutual fund and asset-based fees.
Issuer service fees were down 1% year-over-year and up 34% sequentially. The year-over-year decrease reflects lower
fees in Depositary Receipts and the unfavorable impact of a stronger U.S. dollar in Corporate Trust, and that was
partially offset by net new business in Corporate Trust. The sequential increase primarily reflects seasonal higher fees
and depositary receipts versus the second quarter.
Treasury service fees were down 4% year-over-year and 5% sequentially. Both decreases reflect lower payment
volumes as we continue to be highly selective, exiting client relationships that don't meet our risk criteria.
Third quarter investment management and performance fees were down 6% year-over-year and sequentially. On a
constant currency basis, investment management and performance fees were down 2%, primarily driven by lower
Company Name: Bank of New York
Company Ticker: BK US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 16
performance fees, lower equity market values and net outflows, partially offset by the impact of the first quarter
Cutwater acquisition and strategic initiatives. The sequential decline primarily reflects lower equity market values, net
outflows and seasonally lower performance fees. Both decreases also reflect the sale of Meriten Investment
Management in July. Performance fees were $7 million compared to $22 million a year ago.
FX and other trading revenue on a consolidated basis was up 17% year-over-year and down 4% sequentially. FX
revenue of $180 million was up 17% year-over-year and down 1% sequentially. The year-over-year increase primarily
reflects higher volatility and volumes.
Financing-related fees were $71 million compared to $44 million in the year-ago quarter and $58 million in Q2. The
year-over-year increase primarily reflects higher fees related to secured intraday credit provided to dealers in
connection with their tri-party repo activities. As we noted last quarter, some of our clients may moderate their usage or
possibly find alternative sources for this financing. Importantly, both increases also reflect higher underwriting fees.
Investment and other income of $59 million compared with $890 million in the year-ago quarter and $104 million in
the second quarter. The year-over-year decrease primarily reflects the gains on the sales of our equity investment in
Wing Hang and the One Wall Street building. Those were both recorded in the third quarter of 2014. There's also a $17
million loss on seed capital investments that's recorded in consolidated investment management funds versus a $16
million gain last year that is not reflected in these numbers given the required separate gross presentation for
consolidated funds. The sequential decrease in investment and other income primarily reflects lower leasing gains and
the loss associated with the sale of Meriten Investment Management.
Page nine shows the drivers of our investment management business that help explain our underlying performance.
You can see AUM was $1.63 trillion, unchanged from last year. Note that assets under management for the current and
prior periods have been restated to exclude Meriten. We had $5 billion of long-term net outflows during the quarter.
Those are primarily in index strategies, active equities and fixed income, offset by continued strength in LDI, where we
retain a leadership position. Our wealth management business expansion initiative is helping to drive an increase in
loans and deposits. Year-over-year, we saw a 19% increase in loans and an 11% increase in deposits.
Turning to the Investment Services metrics on page 10, you can see that assets under custody and administration at
quarter-end were $28.5 trillion, that's up $200 billion year-over-year, reflecting net new business, partially offset by the
unfavorable impact of a stronger dollar and the lower equity market values. Adjusted for currency, year-over-year
growth would have been roughly 3%. Linked quarter AUC/A was essentially flat.
We had estimated total new assets under custody and/or administration business wins of $84 billion in the third quarter.
Now, while this is relatively low, it's mainly due to the timing of new business wins this year. In the second quarter, we
announced a significant new strategic relationship, which resulted in an outside win for that quarter. We continue to see
strong demand for our Services and we have a solid pipeline of opportunities.
It is important to note that, this quarter, we changed our methodology for reporting our estimated new business wins –
moving from reporting based on the day the mandate was granted to the date that it was actually contracted. Although it
was not significant, we have restated our historical new business wins beginning in 2014 through this quarter for better
comparative purposes. Additionally, year-to-date new business wins total $1.42 trillion, so we are still trending above
our historical average.
Now, turning to a review of other metrics. The market value of securities on loan at year-end again was up
year-over-year, increasing by 2%. Average loans and deposits continued the strong year-over-year growth trend. Our
Broker-Dealer metric of average tri-party repo balances grew 4%. All of our clearing metrics were up, with global
DARTS volumes up 18%. The net decline in sponsored DR programs primarily reflects our continued focus on exiting
low-activity programs.
Turning to net interest revenue on page 11, you'll see that NIR in a fully taxable equivalent basis was up 5% versus the
year-ago quarter, and down 3% from Q2. The overall balance sheet was stable this quarter. We've benefited
year-over-year from higher average deposits and a better asset mix. The yield on interest-earning assets increased 3
basis points year-over-year and the yield on interest-bearing deposits decreased 4 basis points. The decline in deposit
Company Name: Bank of New York
Company Ticker: BK US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 16
yield was driven by our efforts to charge for deposits in certain non-U.S. locations to cover our cost where negative
interest rates exist. Sequentially, NIR was lower, reflecting lower average securities and the impact of interest rate
hedging activities.
The net interest margin for the quarter was 98 basis points, 4 basis points higher than the year-ago quarter and 2 basis
points lower than the prior quarter, and in line with our expectations and remain in the range of 95 basis points to 100
basis points, as we noted at our Investor Day last year. The year-over-year increase reflects the shift out of cash and
into investments in securities and loans, the benefit of which was mainly realized in the second quarter.
Turning to page 12, you will see that non-interest expense on an adjusted basis declined 3% year-over-year and was flat
sequentially. The year-over-year decrease in non-interest expense reflects lower expenses in all categories, except other
expense. Other expense includes concessions we gave to clients impacted by the system for the SunGard Systems
outage to cover out-of-pocket and other incidental expenses they incurred. Lower expenses compared to a year ago
reflect the favorable impact of a stronger dollar, lower legal and consulting expenses, and the benefit of our business
improvement process. The third quarter decrease was partially offset by higher consulting expenses associated with
regulatory requirements.
Total staff expense declined 3% year-over-year, reflecting the favorable impact of a stronger dollar, the impact of
curtailing our U.S. defined benefit plan, and lower incentive expense, partially offset by our annual employee merit
increase effective on July 1, and higher severance expense. The sequential increase in head count of 600 employees
primarily reflect the on-boarding of staff related to two strategic relationships, as well as our continued in-sourcing of
technology talent to both reduce cost and retain institutional knowledge in-house. Sequentially, the annual employee
merit increase and higher severance and other expenses were almost completely offset by lower incentive, business
development, and sub-custodian expenses.
Turning to capital on page 13, our fully phased-in advanced approach Common Equity Tier 1 ratio decreased by 60
basis points to 9.3. That was driven by increases in risk-weighted assets, primarily related to credit risk and operational
risk. In addition, we're also no longer assuming use of a methodology that is subject to regulatory approval, which
reduced the ratio by approximately 25 basis points.
As Gerald noted, we made good progress on our supplemental leverage ratio and we are at 4.8% this quarter, due to
higher capital and a lower average balance sheet. While our ratio is now 20 basis points below the required 5%
minimum, we do plan to maintain a cushion above that. As we have noted previously, this ratio is expected to be our
binding constraint and we are confident that we will be in compliance when the regulation becomes effective. To the
extent that excess deposits do not run off as we anticipate with an increase in rates, we have many levers to pull,
including the issuance of additional preferred, if necessary, to achieve compliance.
Two final notes about the quarter. As you'll see in our release, our effective tax rate was 25.4%, also on page 11 of the
earnings release, you'll see some investment security portfolio highlights. At quarter-end, our net unrealized pre-tax
gain on our portfolio was $1.05 billion that compares to $752 million at the end of June, with the difference owing
principally to a decline in interest rates.
Now, I'd like to discuss a few points to factor into your thinking about the fourth quarter. We expect to see the typical
seasonal decline in Depositary Receipt fees, with a limited offset in expenses. We estimate the decline in the fourth
quarter from the third quarter to be approximately $120 million in revenues. We expect to generate seasonally higher
performance fees in our investment management business in the fourth quarter, approximately in line with last year.
Net interest revenue is expected to be flat. We expect to see seasonally higher business development expenses.
Additionally, we expect an increase in consulting expenses related to our investments in regulatory compliance
initiatives.
I would also like to note that the fourth quarter of last year was when we began to see the U.S. dollar strengthen, so you
should keep that dynamic in mind as you model us.
Company Name: Bank of New York
Company Ticker: BK US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 16
We expect total expenses to be relatively flat in the fourth quarter versus the year-ago period, adjusted for litigation,
and lower for the full-year 2015 as compared to the full-year 2014. We continue to expect our tax rate to be
approximately 25%. We'll also remind you that we're going to pay a dividend on the preferred that we issued in the
second quarter. And finally, we continue to expect to execute on share buybacks in accordance with our plan
authorization.
So in summary, we're executing on our strategic priorities and we are pleased with the progress we're making, even
with the relatively challenging market headwinds. We're continuing to generate significant positive operating leverage,
even while we invest in initiatives to drive further growth and absorb higher regulatory compliance cost. We're
focusing on managing our balance sheet, generating capital, and deploying it effectively to deliver value to our
shareholders. And we remain on track to achieve the three-year targets we shared at Investor Day this time last year.
With that, let me hand it back to Gerald.
Gerald L. Hassell
Thanks, Todd. And, operator, I think we're ready to open it up for questions.
Q&A
Operator
At this time we are ready to begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes
from Ashley Serrao from Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
<Q - Ashley Neil Serrao>: Good morning.
<A - Gerald L. Hassell>: Good morning.
<Q - Ashley Neil Serrao>: I was just curious what portion of the $500 million in savings that you outlined at Investor
Day have been achieved so far? And also, what portion of that, has been invested in the business. Ultimately, I'm just
trying to get a sense of the net savings that have dropped to your bottom-line. And I may have misheard this, but
sounds like you've also identified incremental opportunities that you think would be additive. Any color there would be
appreciated.
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: Yeah. Ashley, let me say that – this is Todd, let me just say, first of all, that the $500
million was a number that we put out last year. And we've been working hard to add to that total figure. And we – this
is a continuous process improvement. These are structural changes, they're not one-time events. And we do continue to
see increasing opportunities and the number continues to get bigger.
In terms of how much is adding to the bottom-line versus what's being reinvested into regulatory or other strategic
platforms, I think the best way to look at that is to look at the increase in the operating margin. Some of that – the 377
basis points this quarter, some of that on a year-over-year basis, some of that is related to the dollar, probably about 77
basis points or so. So even on a constant currency basis, we're 300 basis points better. So that's what you're seeing drop
to the bottom-line.
<Q - Ashley Neil Serrao>: Okay, thanks for the color there. And then, I guess, the other question was that I noticed
cash inter-bank placements ticked up sequentially, it looks like, the first time in a year. I know you've practically been
trying to shift away from cash, so I was curious to how we should be interpreting the increase.
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: Yeah, if you look at the average period, it's probably a better way to look at it, and you'll
see it's relatively flat and, actually, cash at the central banks is down a little bit. So we do get spikes from time to time
on quarter-ends. In fact, the period-ends have been spiking by about $15 billion or $20 billion so that you could just get
noise there; but in general, cash at other banks should be flat and central bank deposits should be or is going to be down
Company Name: Bank of New York
Company Ticker: BK US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 16
on a year-over-year basis as we put more in loans as well as in securities.
<Q - Ashley Neil Serrao>: Okay. Thanks for taking my questions.
Operator
All right. Thank you. Our next question will be coming from the line of Ms. Betsy Graseck from Morgan Stanley.
Ma'am, your line is open.
<Q - Elizabeth Lynn Graseck>: Hi, thank you. Todd, I wondered if you could give us an update on how you are
dealing with negative rates over in Europe and the degree to which your deposit pricing strategy is done in line with an
expectation to reduce deposits there.
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: Yeah, there is a slight decline, Betsy, in deposits since we initiated that strategy, but not
much. We did up the charge for some of those deposits in the third quarter, late in the third quarter, and I would say
you're just seeing a modest decline, if any.
<Q - Elizabeth Lynn Graseck>: And so as you think about the size of the balance sheet in this lower for longer rate
environment, could you talk through thoughts on the SLR and whether or not that includes issuing incremental press?
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: Sure. So we did get to $480 million on the quarter. We do accumulate – even at 100%
payout ratio, we accumulate somewhere between $600 million and $800 million a year in incremental capital from the
amortization of intangibles as well as equity that's issued for compensation plans. So if you take that into consideration
that moves us up a bit over the next couple of years.
We've also gone through – if we – we've kind of looked at our balance sheet through two lenses: one is in a zero rate
environment, and one is in a normalizing rate environment that's reflected in the forward curve. In the normalizing rate
environment, as you know, we would expect quite a bit of deposits to run off, and we could probably comply in the
normal course with the SLR with a pretty decent cushion. If it stays in a zero rate environment, we've got a team
working together with Investment Services and the Treasury group. We've prioritized all of our balance sheet
consumption and where we might either look at interest rates by going even negative on interest rates to discourage
deposits, or, in other words, pushing off other SLR-related activities. And we would hold as a kind of a last resort, if it
makes sense economically, to issue preferreds.
<Q - Elizabeth Lynn Graseck>: Okay. And I'm sorry if I missed it, but have you given your Bank SLR? I know you
talked about the HoldCo level.
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: Yeah. The Bank SLR is about 20 basis points below the HoldCo level right now.
<Q - Elizabeth Lynn Graseck>: Okay, thanks.
Operator
All right, thank you. Our next question will be coming from the line of Luke Montgomery of Bernstein Research. Sir,
your line is open.
<Q - Luke Montgomery>: Thanks. Good morning. I'd like to know what your thoughts are on the application of block
chain technology to security settlement in tri-party repo. I think you know that there is a number of startups out there
that are looking at this. Do you think the technology would be more likely to disintermediate the settlement
infrastructure, which would be maybe the central securities depository or could it also obviate some of the services that
the global custodians like you provide? And then do you see any limitations in the technology or maybe vested interests
that would prevent it from being adopted by the securities markets and just how closely have you been examining it?
Company Name: Bank of New York
Company Ticker: BK US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 16
<A - Gerald L. Hassell>: That's a mouthful of questions. We are studying block chain technology quite intensely. It
has some very, very positive attributes. Clearly, the whole idea of two sides showing up on a public ledger and being
able to swap values instantaneously is very appealing. So we are looking at it and whether it can be deployed in some
pilot programs that we have internally. And therefore see how the technology can be used to improve our core
operations, both on the clearance and settlement side.
We've been trying to engineer our company for same-day real-time settlement regardless. And so whether it's through
block chain or through other means, it's something that we think about a whole lot. We do have some pilot programs
going on in the payment space, in our Treasury Services area, where that's the area most impacted at the moment by
third-party technology companies who are going after the payments. Now, typically it's the small payments, consumer
payments. But anything that happens at the consumer level we assume is going to happen at the institutional level.
As it relates to clearance in tri-party directly, that is an extraordinarily complex operating platform with incredibly
complex algorithms built into it, so we're not naive to think that technology can't disrupt even that, but I think we feel
pretty comfortable at the moment there.
Last but not least, for block chain to work you need to have everybody on both sides, the buy-side and the sell-side
show up simultaneously, in volume, to have it make sense. And so we are looking at the technologies and how it can be
applied. So there's a lot of room ahead of us before it's fully implemented, but we are studying it very carefully.
<Q - Luke Montgomery>: Okay. Thanks, that's really helpful. And then, I was just hoping you could sketch out in a
little more detail what you're attempting to achieve with Dreyfus in retail distribution. I think I recall one of the
possible explanations for the low- to mid-30% range operating margins in the asset management business is that the
retail platform is expansive, but maybe not up to scale. So as you execute against that plan, do you expect to see
operating margins in the asset management business improve?
<A - Curtis Yates Arledge>: Yeah, this is Curtis. Absolutely. And what I would point you to is that, while we are the
sixth largest asset manager in the world, in terms of U.S. mutual fund families, we're currently 37th. So we have all of
the investment capabilities or a large majority of the investment capabilities in-house that is used by investors that use
mutual funds, financial advisors and individuals, ultimately, as the end users. But our platform to reach advisors is
below where we think it should be and where it could be to really improve our distribution of our investment
capabilities through that channel.
It's very important to appreciate the large scale shift of assets from defined benefit plans, ultimately into roll over
401(k), after they go through retirement plans. And so a major industry shift is assets that had been managed by CIOs
of pension plans are now going to be managed, again, by individual advisors. So we want to obviously be in sync with
that shift. The investment that we began over a year ago, we're actually pretty excited about U.S. retail. Despite a pretty
challenging environment for the industry, we've done quite well. And so recent statistics around flows actually have
come out and we were 18th in terms of the third quarter, in terms of net flows. So if the 37th largest family is 18th in
net flows over an extended period of time, we should see our market share grow. And it's a very important part of our
initiative that we outlined at Investor Day.
I would also highlight that we do reach clients directly through our wealth management business. Our wealth
management business tends to focus on individuals and family offices with higher net worth. And we've seen through
our expansion fantastic growth there. Todd mentioned the 19% increase we've seen in loans and deposits. I would share
with you that our partnership with Pershing has been a really important contributor to that. Nearly a quarter of our
growth in loans and deposits came from connecting to the financial advisor clients of Pershing. So both the U.S. retail
coverage of advisors and wealth management are important parts of our future investment management.
Operator
All right. Thank you. Our next question will be coming from the line of Glenn Schorr of Evercore ISI. Sir, your line is
open.
Company Name: Bank of New York
Company Ticker: BK US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 16
<Q - Glenn Paul Schorr>: Thanks very much. So everybody likes the positive operating leverage even without the
currency impact. Quick question on the delta and the legal and consulting expense year-on-year. I don't know if you
can give us the dollar amount for each quarter or just the delta, I was just curious how much of that was a contributor.
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: Yeah, the consulting and legal expense did decline on a year-over-year basis a little. We
are seeing some of the dividends from the lower litigation defense charges, as well as lower consulting expenses related
to our – a number of our strategic platforms. That was offset somewhat by higher consulting expenses related to some
of the regulatory compliance efforts, especially around improving the qualitative process in our CCAR as well as the
resolution and the recovery planning. So on a year-over-year basis, I think it was down about $20 million.
<Q - Glenn Paul Schorr>: That means the bulk of the 300 basis points year-on-year on operating leverage is the
structural improvement stuff?
<A - Gerald L. Hassell>: Yeah, that is correct.
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: Yeah, it's beyond that. A lot of it's coming – obviously, the biggest expense is in staff
expense, and so that's where most of it's coming.
Operator
All right, thank you. Our next question will be coming from the line of Alex Blostein of Goldman Sachs. Sir your line
is open.
<Q - Alexander V. Blostein>: Great. Hey, good morning, everybody. Todd, I might be a little premature, but as we're
thinking about 2016, you guys obviously had a great job this year of controlling expenses and some of it is FX-related
but as you noted, and a lot of it is just kind of core improvement. Given the fact that it sounds like you made a lot of
progress on the regulatory front and getting those systems in place, where are we, I guess, in the pace of growth of
regulatory-related expenses? And as we think out into next year, is there still enough you guys can do in the core
business to keep expenses kind of flattish to down?
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: Yeah. I think, Alex, it's a little early in our planning process. We continue to identify
through the business improvement process additional actions that we can take. We do anticipate, as I'd indicated, in the
fourth quarter, a bit of a pop on some of the regulatory cost as we further build out some of the compliance and risk
functions. I'd say it's a little early to call it for next year, but we do see a number of continued opportunities, and our
goal is, as you'll even see in this quarter, we're in the – in the guidance that we gave for the fourth quarter, is to keep
things flat on a year-over-year basis. Depending on the revenue growth and where the revenue comes from, that could
be more challenging.
<Q - Alexander V. Blostein>: Got it. And then just around balance sheet management, you guys have been charging
toward deposits in Europe for the last couple of quarters, I guess. Any thoughts about – any thoughts on doing the same
in the U.S., given the fact that the balance sheet came down a little bit quarter-over-quarter but overall still pretty
elevated? So any thoughts around charging for deposits here?
<A - Gerald L. Hassell>: Yes. Alex, I'll take that. We do have a team working with our Treasury group and our
Investment Services group at the U.S. client base and making sure whatever deposits we do have from them are,
ideally, operational deposits versus non-valuable deposits and experimenting with certain types of clients and client
segments, whether they can be priced differently than what they are today and either they pay for it or pay for the use of
the balance sheet or they move the deposits somewhere else. And so we are doing it on a selective basis. We haven't
put through any charges yet, but we are having conversations with certain clients and certain client segments.
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: I think we also benefit from having the ability in the portal to be able to help our clients
sweep cash into money market mutual funds, both our own and other providers'. So we can at least retain some of the
distribution fees associated with it.
Company Name: Bank of New York
Company Ticker: BK US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 16
Operator
All right, thank you. Our next question will be coming from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies. Sir, your line is open.
<Q - Kenneth M. Usdin>: Thanks. Good morning. On the Asset Servicing side, you were able to keep fees flats
quarter-to-quarter even with sec lending and equity market declines. I was wondering, did you already start to
recognize revenue from the T. Rowe contract? And how do we start to understand how that builds forth over time? It
seems like the underlying core servicing and new business was quite good relative to the market conditions, so I was
just wondering if you could flush that out for us.
<A - Brian Thomas Shea>: Yeah. The Asset Servicing – it's Brian Shea speaking. Asset servicing fees were up 3%
year-over-year, and it's driven by a combination of Global Collateral Services, Broker-Dealer Services and the core
Asset Servicing fees. So pretty good performance overall.
I think, from a T. Rowe Price perspective, we on-boarded the T. Rowe middle office team in August and we began to
receive some revenue from middle office operational services from T. Rowe Price in August. Then we'll be moving
toward a fund accounting conversion from their existing fund accounting platform to ours. And then a new middle
office platform in stages. And as we implement each stage, we expect to have additional revenue growth from each
stage through the execution process. And importantly, we see this as a secular trend among investment managers who
are looking for much more variable cost, share economy of scale services both from middle office services and
technology platforms as well.
<A - Gerald L. Hassell>: Yeah. Very little revenues in the third quarter from T. Rowe.
<A - Brian Thomas Shea>: Right.
<Q - Kenneth M. Usdin>: Okay. So then what was – what drove the sequential growth ex-T. Rowe, then, across the
businesses, aside from sec lending decline?
<A - Brian Thomas Shea>: Organic growth, Global Collateral Services growth, Broker-Dealer Services growth, all
contributed to Asset Servicing year-over-year improvement.
<A - Gerald L. Hassell>: And sequential improvement, yes.
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: Sequential.
<A - Brian Thomas Shea>: And sequential growth, yeah, sure.
Operator
All right, thank you. Our next question will be coming from the line of Mr. Brian Bedell of Deutsche Bank. Sir, your
line is open.
<Q - Brian B. Bedell>: Great, thanks for taking my questions. Just to maybe zero in on the short-term rate
environment, a couple of things, I guess. What's your outlook for money market fee waivers into fourth quarter, given
just the recent pullback in some of the treasury and repo yields? And then also on the balance sheet for the quarter, we
saw an uptick in securities portfolio yields and maybe just talk about the driver of that? And it looks like the rate on the
MMDAs went to zero on the liability side. So maybe if you can talk about those dynamics.
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: Okay, I'll – good morning, Brian, it's Todd. In terms of fee waivers, there's not a heck of a
lot of noise there. We've given a $0.06 to $0.08 impact overall per quarter and I would expect it's going to be well
within that range. It was kind of in the middle of that range in the third quarter. And so we are seeing some noise on
yields with the potential government shutdown. And your second – what was your second question, Brian?
<Q - Brian B. Bedell>: On the results in the third quarter on the drivers of – there was an uptick in the government and
other securities line, in the securities portfolio and then also on the – looks like the MMDA went from 13 basis points
Company Name: Bank of New York
Company Ticker: BK US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 16
to zero, I just wonder if that's sustainable.
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: Yeah. In terms of the – and you're talking about the securities portfolio, our proprietary
portfolio?
<Q - Brian B. Bedell>: Yes.
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: It is up from last year at this time fairly substantially. And we did get some yields out of it.
Basically, we repositioned cash once we had a full understanding of the LCR. And it was acknowledged that we could
use the health and maturity account and still have an asset considered as a high-quality liquid asset. So at that point in
time, we took down interbank placements and we increased our securities, increased our duration a little bit in the
portfolio and also increased the yield. There's been a little bit of change over the past couple of quarters, but we think
that's relatively stable and that's why we're forecasting into the fourth quarter flat NIR relative to the third quarter.
In terms of the MMDAs going down, I don't know, Curtis, if you have it. I don't see any impact to that degree at this
point in time.
<Q - Brian B. Bedell>: And excess deposits are still in that $50 billion to $70 billion camp?
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: That's where we would estimate them, yes, Brian.
<Q - Brian B. Bedell>: Okay, good. And then just to follow up on asset management. You're clearly benefiting in the
LDI side from the flows coming out of defined benefit pension plans. As you think about the revenue capture that you
get in LDI versus the stuff that you'd be losing in the index and any active, is that an accretive swap? It sounds like that
could obviously be a longer-term trend. If you just want to comment on that.
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: Yeah. Index fees, as you know, are very low and the large majority of our index assets are
institutional, so they are truly on the low end of the fee range. LDI has a single-digit management fees, many of those
mandates also have performance fees, so a lot of the performance fees that we earn actually come from LDI mandates.
So you have to think about it from a blended management and performance fee perspective.
The other thing I would tell you is that when we take on an LDI mandate, we are frequently taking on a large majority
of a client's total portfolio, so they may be reducing their equity and other exposures that are managed by others and
moving their portfolio, sometimes their whole portfolio, to us in LDI. So a lot of the LDI growth we have seen have
been where pension plans have either taken a portion or, again, in some cases, the large majority of their plan and
moved it to us.
Index assets are a pretty interesting flow dynamics to watch. They have a lot to do with just the overall exposure, some
very large clients will have, they use index products to get beta exposure to equity markets and fixed income markets,
and given the volatility, you've seen the outflows we've had in equity index strategies that we've mentioned in the last
quarter. And I'll say again this quarter; some of the flows in index are very large flows from single clients, and so not
really as connected to what we're seeing in LDI.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will be coming from the line of Mr. Brennan Hawken of UBS. Sir, your line is open.
<Q - Brennan McHugh Hawken>: Good morning. Thanks for taking the question. I understand that what you can say
on this might be limited at this point, but is there any way you can help us think about any potential liabilities and other
headwinds from the SunGard outage at this point, and how you feel about your ability to pass those liabilities on to
SunGard?
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: Okay, Brennan. This is Todd, I'll take some of that, and maybe I can turn it over to my
colleagues as well. In terms of the financial impact, we did incur some incidentals, as you might expect, in the quarter,
and those ran through the numbers. And we did cover the related charges that some of our clients would have
Company Name: Bank of New York
Company Ticker: BK US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 16
experienced. And we did take that as a charge in the third quarter as well.
In terms of any differences in making investors whole, we don't see – as we've gone through the reconciling process,
we don't see much in the way, and there certainly could be some of that. And we have, of course, have reserved our
right to include SunGard in any recoveries that we'd be looking to make. That's about where we are financially.
<A - Gerald L. Hassell>: And just broadly, Brennan, we've been very proactive with our clients, making sure that they
were – they've been covered in terms of their out-of-pockets or when they've been – they went through a challenging
week, so we wanted to make sure we were proactive in covering their costs and taking care of them. Investors, at the
end of the day, between the, quote machine-generated NAVs and the process, the protocol we followed at the time was
miniscule. So we felt good about the process that was employed. And so we're actively working with the clients,
working with their fund boards, making sure that they fully understand what happened and how we recovered and why
the system is stable and safe. So we're moving forward.
<Q - Brennan McHugh Hawken>: Okay, great. And certainly – we've talked to actually some of your clients and
they've described you as good partners through this so. I heard that on the other side as well, so thanks for that. And
then just a quick one on capital. Can you quantify or give us a sense about how much of your advanced RWAs are in
op risk at this point?
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: Yeah, so – Brennan, this is Todd again. It's a very big number and that may change as the
regulators reconsider the standardized approach, but as there have been – the methodology is informed by external
losses or losses at third-parties, and as there have been bigger and bigger losses, that gets filtered into our model and as
a result, keeps driving up the risk-weighted assets. So the number is probably a little over one-third or right around
one-third of our total risk-weighted assets in the advanced approach.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will be coming from the line of Mr. Mike Mayo of CLSA. Sir, your line is open.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: Hi, can you hear me?
<A - Gerald L. Hassell>: Hi, Mike.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: Can you hear me?
<A - Gerald L. Hassell>: Yes, now we can hear you better, thank you.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: Sorry about that. Can I just get a clarification? Your assets under custody are flat in a down
market second quarter to third quarter. Is that explained by the Global Collateral Services and Broker-Dealer Services,
or was there something else going on?
<A - Gerald L. Hassell>: It's organic growth.
<A - Brian Thomas Shea>: Yeah. So, Mike, assets under – it's Brian Shea. Assets under custody and administration
are up 1% year-over-year flat sequentially as you mentioned. Currency and market values had a negative effect. If you
had a constant currency and constant market, you'd have seen more like a 3% growth rate in our AUC/A, which is
pretty solid. And as you know, our focus is not exclusively on AUC/A growth or pure revenue growth or pure market
share growth, but we've shifted our focus towards better profitability and creating more value for clients and
shareholders.
I guess the best example of that, which Gerald mentioned earlier, is that we're repositioning our U.K. TA business and
we're actively repositioning as a global institutional bundled service and reducing the focus on local U.K. retail TA. So
we're actually pushing AUC/A out in that environment, but we're going to improve our profitability in the process, and
that's the goal.
Company Name: Bank of New York
Company Ticker: BK US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 16
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: And it was the quarter that we on-boarded T. Rowe, Mike, so that was a substantial reason
for the sequential – not having any material sequential impact.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: Okay, that makes sense. We've heard a lot about pricing for better profitability for three, four
years. Not just from you but from the whole sub-segment. I mean, are you raising your hurdle rates, are you instructing
your relationship managers to do something differently? I know you've mentioned that you've had these sorts of pricing
conversations with the kind of lower-tier accounts, but can you provide anything else more tangible more than just the
U.K. example?
<A - Brian Thomas Shea>: Sure, Mike. It's Brian again. So I think you've heard us talk in the past about up-pricing
small accounts, raising minimums, enforcing minimums and et cetera, and we have done quite a bit of that over the past
few years and made some progress for sure. But now what's happening is a slightly different thing, which is we've
formed a client pricing strategy group, and the focus of it is to align the drivers of our costs and our client pricing to
drive more rational behavior end-to-end with the clients. We believe there is a real opportunity to lower costs
end-to-end with our clients in partnership, and we're using pricing strategies and data to inform the clients, in a way,
and to incent the clients to actually implement low-cost behavior.
So for example, we have online systems that clients can use which are more efficient and to provide better service and
yet clients are still faxing us things, so we're putting incentives in place to move toward the online system and use the
more rational surge delivery. That actually lowers the clients' cost and makes them more efficient as well. So there is a
series of things like that that we're working on, and we'll be consulting with our clients and trying to drive lower
end-to-end cost with them in a rational way.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will be coming from the line of Mr. Jim Mitchell of Buckingham Research. Sir, your line
is open.
<Q - James F. Mitchell>: Okay. Thanks. Good morning. Maybe just a quick follow-up on capital with the Bank SLR
at 4.6 and needing to get to 6, is there anything you can do in terms of shifting around assets from the holding company
to the Bank to kind of shore that up, because that's obviously more of a constraint than the firm-wide SLR? How do we
think about that if we're in a lower for longer and higher deposit type environment?
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: Yeah, Jim, that's exactly what we intend to do, so I think you hit the point. We think we
can probably downstream capital in a way that bumps up the capital at the Bank over the capital at the holding
company. There will be a little bit of cost to that, but it won't be huge so we don't need to execute that right now.
<Q - James F. Mitchell>: Okay. And do we have to think about – do you have to incorporate – I mean, maybe we
don't know yet, but just thinking about next year's CCAR, it will capture 2018. Do you need to build a glide path into
next year's CCAR for SLR in any way or do you have time to get there?
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: Yeah. The CCAR, next year's CCAR specifically excludes the SLR, so that will go into
effect in 2017, but I think any prudent analysis – so this kind of gets into the qualitative side of it. I think that we're
going to have to demonstrate that we have a reasonable glide path and we have a way to get there, so I think that will be
from the qualitative side but it's excluded from the actual quantitative side of next year's CCAR.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will be coming from the line of Mr. Adam Beatty of Bank of America. Sir, your line is
open.
<Q - Adam Q. Beatty>: Thank you and good morning. Just a couple of follow-ups on Asset Servicing. Firstly, on
SunGard. Wanted to close the loop on that. Have you seen any kind of extended duration of the contracting process,
Company Name: Bank of New York
Company Ticker: BK US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 16
any impact on your discussions with prospective clients due to that? And then on the cost side, is there any run rate
costs that you would expect from maybe additional safeguards or what have you? Thanks.
<A - Brian Thomas Shea>: Yeah, it's Brian Shea. So we've been in constant communication with our clients
throughout – especially the affected clients, during the period of time that there was an impact. But actually, we've
extended our outreach to clients to put this in context and to help them understand the details and have had meetings
and dialogues with well over 1,000 clients to make sure they understand what's going on.
I would say our clients have been working with us very closely and been very supportive and understanding during the
incident and are getting a tremendous amount of transparency from us and from SunGard around the actual incident.
And what we're doing about it going forward in terms of ensuring our ability to deliver service on critical activities and
have systems in place that are more reliable and more resilient, both from a vendor management perspective and our
own internal system. So we're using every opportunity here to learn from this experience and to actually make us a
more resilient, reliable partner. And I think our clients appreciate that and are getting very good insight from us about
that.
In terms of the financial perspective, I'll let Todd talk on that.
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: Yeah. At this point, we've not identified any material increase in cost as a result of this. I
mean, we did incur pretty meaningful cost in the third quarter, which we ran through the numbers, but we – I mean,
there could be some, to your point, but we don't – at least we haven't identified any that would be material at this point.
<Q - Adam Q. Beatty>: Appreciate that, thanks. And then on the T. Rowe relationship, sounds like there's going to be
some layering on of cost and revenues. What's your expected timing, given your implementation plan of, number one,
achieving kind of a net profit contribution from that, and also in terms of just getting to steady state in terms of
revenues and costs?
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: Yeah, we're still in the investment stage of the strategic relationship and, as you know,
we've on-boarded a couple of hundred-plus people in August and we began to receive some revenue, although as
Gerald mentioned, it's on the modest end. We'll do the fund accounting conversion in 2016 and that will have – we'll be
providing more services and we'll get some more revenue associated with it. And the final stage will be the middle
office platform conversion, which I don't have the timing directly in front of me, but let's just say 2017. And at the end
of which we expect to have a good strategic relationship that's profitable and beneficial to both parties.
Operator
Thank you. Our final question will be coming from the line of Mr. Gerard Cassidy of RBC. Sir, your line is open.
<Q - Gerard S. Cassidy>: Thank you, good morning. Todd, can you share with us on the deposits that you're assessing
a fee on, what percentage of your total deposits are actually in and in the environments that actually have negative
rates? And of that amount, what percentage are you charging a fee? And are non-interest bearing deposits included in
that as well?
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: Non-interest bearing deposits could be included in that, typically overseas. You can go
either way. So about one-third of our deposits are non-dollar. And so of that, the majority are euro. And so that would
be the number that would be, at this point in time, exposed to a fee. And any other currencies, like Swiss Franc and the
Danish currency, it's a pretty small number that doesn't even move the needle. So it's really basically the euro where
we're assessing anything of any size.
<Q - Gerard S. Cassidy>: Great. And then just as a follow-up, I may have missed it, you mentioned about the other
operating expenses including the one-time costs associated with the SunGard issue. What was the dollar amount of that,
those one-time costs?
<A - Thomas P. Gibbons>: We didn't disclose the dollar amount, Gerard. But if you look at that number and you can
see the sequential increase in other, most of that was related to – or a substantial part of that was related to the SunGard
Company Name: Bank of New York
Company Ticker: BK US
Date: 2015-10-20
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 16 of 16
matter.
<Q - Gerard S. Cassidy>: Great, thank you.
Gerald L. Hassell
Okay. Well, thank you very much everyone for dialing in. We really appreciate it and your questions. If you have
additional follow-up questions, please give Valerie Haertel a call. And, again, we thank you for your participation and
support.
Operator
If there are any additional questions or comments, you may contact Ms. Valerie Haertel at 212-635-8529. Thank you,
ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.