Company Name: GE
Company Ticker: GE US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 16
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Matthew G. Cribbins
• Jeffrey R. Immelt
• Keith S. Sherin
• Jeffrey S. Bornstein
Other Participants
• Scott Reed Davis
• Deane Dray
• Steven E. Winoker
• Nigel Coe
• Shannon O'Callaghan
• Julian Mitchell
• Joseph A. Ritchie
• Christopher D. Glynn
• Robert Paul McCarthy
• Jeffrey T. Sprague
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric third quarter 2015 earnings conference call. At
this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Ellen, and I will be your conference coordinator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Matt Cribbins, Vice President of
Investor Communications. Please proceed.
Matthew G. Cribbins
Thank you. Good morning and welcome to our third quarter earnings webcast. We issued the press release,
presentation, and supplemental earlier this morning on our website at www.ge.com/investor.
As always, elements of this presentation are forward looking and are based on our best view of the world and our
businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes.
For today's webcast, we have Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt; Vice Chairman and CEO of GE Capital, Keith Sherin;
and our CFO, Jeff Bornstein. Now I'll turn it over to Jeff Immelt.
Jeffrey R. Immelt
Thanks, Matt, and good morning, everyone.
Company Name: GE
Company Ticker: GE US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 16
The GE team had a good quarter in a slow growth and volatile environment. Organic performance was strong.
Industrial revenue growth was up 4%. Profit was up 9%. Year-to-date Industrial CFOA was up 23% and Industrial
segment margins were up 100 basis points.
Let me make a few comments on how we are seeing our markets more broadly. The U.S. is still okay and Europe is
appreciably better. Meanwhile, growth markets are facing some headwinds in resource pricing and currency.
Nonetheless, we're positioned to win some big fourth quarter deals in these markets, in locomotives, in power, Aviation
and Power Conversion, which should support our growth objectives. And service provides a great buffer in times of
uncertainty.
We made substantial progress on GE's portfolio transformation in the quarter. Alstom has been approved by the
European Commission, and we expect this to close soon. The Fed has approved the Synchrony separation, and we
expect to commence the share exchange next week. The net effect of this should be to return about $20 billion to
investors in the form of share reduction.
Our GE Capital portfolio sales are ahead of plan, and with the Wells announcement, we now expect 2015 signings of
$140 billion to $150 billion, and we believe this will facilitate an incremental dividend from GE Capital of $2.5 billion
in the fourth quarter or $3 billion for the year.
So if you look at our execution, we're tracking to meet or beat all of our critical goals, we're reconfirming our earnings
outlook that we gave in the second quarter when we boosted the low end of our range, and our CFOA and cash returned
to investors will be at the high end of our framework. So Keith and I will now take you through a deeper dive on the
portfolio moves.
For Alstom, all the major regulators have now approved GE's purchase of Alstom with remedies. We're comfortable
with the outcome, as the economic and strategic impact of the deal remains intact. We will divest to Ansaldo the GT26
new units and the GT36 technology and 34 of 720 service contracts in the installed base. We'll retain the ability to do
service for competitive units through PSM.
Financially, we still expect to achieve $3 billion of synergies with $0.05 to $0.08 of earnings accretion in 2016 and
$0.15 to $0.20 by 2018. Alstom grows GE's installed base by 50%. In addition, they will substantially improve our
position in renewables and grid. Alstom will achieve a strong return for investors and we will give you more operating
details on Alstom at a special meeting we plan to hold in late November.
Now, over to Keith to give you an update on the GE Capital portfolio moves.
Keith S. Sherin
Thanks, Jeff, and good morning, everyone.
As Jeff mentioned, we have received formal approval from the Federal Reserve to move forward with the split-off of
Synchrony Financial as a standalone company. This is the final step in a project which we started two years ago and is
a key component in the transformation of GE Capital. We can't talk about the specific financial terms of this exchange
until we launch, however, to provide some context, on the left side of the page, we show the timeline and mechanics for
the exchange.
We plan to launch the split exchange next week subject to market conditions. The offer period remains open for 20
business days from the time of launch, and at launch we're going to set the offer terms for the exchange, meaning the
split discount that holders will receive on Synchrony stock when they exchange their GE shares, plus the exchange cap
ratio which is the maximum discount between GE and Synchrony shares set at the time of the launch. The pricing for
the split exchange will happen on day 16 to 18, and the offer closes on day 20, which would occur the week of
November 16.
Based on precedents from other exchanges that have taken place and the current stock prices of GE and Synchrony, we
anticipate to receive proceeds of between $18 billion and $21 billion which translate to a buyback of 650 million to 750
Company Name: GE
Company Ticker: GE US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 16
million shares in GE. The range and outcomes is determined by the split discount, the exchange ratio, and the
movement of GE and Synchrony shares prior to and during the exchange up to pricing. We anticipate that we'll record a
gain in GE Capital in discontinued operations. And that gain, the size of which is dependent on the final split discount,
will be embedded in the proceeds for the buyback so it'll not have any impact on GECC capital ratios.
I'd really like to thank Margaret Keane and her team for the terrific work they've done to position Synchrony for this
separation. In the next 30 days, we plan to retire 6% to 7% of GE shares.
Next, I'll give you an update on our progress executing the plan that we announced on April 10. On the top left of this
chart is an update on the portfolio sales. We are ahead of plan and in the first six months since the announcement, we
signed deals on $126 billion worth of ENI. Since 2Q, we signed $58 billion worth of transactions, the largest being the
$30 billion sale of our Distribution Finance, vendor finance and direct-lending businesses to Wells Fargo, which we
announced earlier this week. We gave previous guidance that we would sign $120 billion to $150 billion of deals by
year-end and we're now raising the low end of that range to $140 billion given the progress we've made. We have
closed $60 billion of sales to-date and we're on track to close $100 billion by year-end.
On the bottom left, you can see our current view versus the goals that we established back on April 10. We're ahead of
plan on asset sales and we expect to largely be done with our exits by year-end 2016 instead of 2017. Overall, we're on
track to deliver the $35 billion of capital back to the parent. You can see on the top right that our pricing to-date on the
$126 billion is slightly ahead of plan at 1.4 times price-to-tangible book, and the deal that we announced with Wells
earlier this week was also at approximately 1.4 times price-to-tangible book. As a result of the accelerated sales, we are
giving up some of the future income from the Hubble plan, but overall with our asset and liability management actions,
including the debt exchange that we completed, our current estimate of capital to be returned is still $35 billion.
In terms of timing of dividends, as we close sales transactions in the fourth quarter, we expect our Tier 1 Common ratio
to exceed 14% and we plan to pay a dividend of approximately $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter subject to our
governance process. That would result in $3 billion for 2015, which is $2 billion higher than the original plan. In
addition, we're on track for the $18 billion of dividends that we previously said would come in 2016.
Our goal is to apply for SIFI de-designation, which based on our view of transaction closings, our target is to file in the
first quarter of 2016. If you combine the Synchrony split with the 2015 transaction closings, we expect to end 2015
with around $175 billion of ENI, around $200 billion lower than year-end 2014. I'd really like to thank the GE Capital
employees who have accomplished a lot in the last six months and the team is focused on substantially completing the
business exits by the end of 2016.
Let me turn it back to Jeff.
Jeffrey R. Immelt
Thanks, Keith. And now, I'll briefly go through GE's Industrial operations. Year-to-date orders are down 4%
organically. We faced some tough comps in orders compared to third quarter 2014 when total orders grew by 22% and
equipment orders grew by 31%. Organically, developed markets were up 18% year to date, with growth markets down
7% excluding a large one-time GE9X order. Our year-to-date orders in China are up 1%. Service grew by 6%
organically and our progress was broad based. Power gen services grew by 10%, Aviation spares grew by 28%, and
Healthcare was up by 4% organically.
Power & Water, Energy Management, and Healthcare orders were up 9% organically. However, Aviation and
Transportation had significant one-time orders placed in the third quarter of 2014 with the GE9X and Tier 4. These two
products alone had $6 billion of orders in the third quarter of 2014.
Oil & Gas orders reflect the impact of industry dynamics. Our organic orders decline was 32% and is not unexpected.
We continue to compete well in the market and have not seen cancellations. Importantly, there are substantial
equipment orders where we've been selected technically, but they have been delayed. So we're confident in our market
position. Across the company, we have a strong funnel of orders for the fourth quarter and we expect our orders
Company Name: GE
Company Ticker: GE US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 16
performance to improve.
On execution, the GE team executed very well in the quarter. Organic revenue growth was up 4% with six or seven
segments up. Our relative position, both in product and geographic diversity, has never been stronger. Globally,
revenue in the U.S. was up 5%. In Europe, organic growth was up substantially, while growth markets declined by 7%.
Year-to-date revenue was positive in ASEAN, China, sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America, and Middle East and North
Africa. Meanwhile, regions like Russia, Canada, and Australia have been hard-hit by natural resource dynamics.
Services were up 8% organically. Growth for software and analytics was up 16%, gaining momentum from our digital
investments. At Minds + Machines, we launched Predix and now have more than 20,000 developers. We're expanding
partnerships with important customers like Boeing, Exelon, and BP. Service growth was broad-based, with Power up
9%, Aviation up 17%, Transportation up 10%, and Healthcare up 3% organically.
We're winning with new products. The H turbine has 67 technical selections with 21 in backlog. Power Conversion
revenue grew by 15% behind multiple new product launches. Our aviation engines are achieving market leadership by
meeting customer commitments with superior execution. We now have 10,000 LEAP engines in backlog.
Life Sciences had 8% organic growth in the quarter, and we have two important wins for bioprocess manufacturing in
China. We launched Current as a way to capitalize on 72% LED growth and the opportunity to build a strong presence
in the C&I energy efficiency space.
Margins continue to be a great GE story. Segment op margins grew by 100 basis points with growth in gross margins of
80 basis points. And we have expanded our value gap by $300 million year to date and expect this to continue. Our
product margins are expanding, and analytics continue to drive productivity in services. Restructuring is delivering
substantial benefits. And in all, we think our margins can continue to grow. This is our 10th straight quarter of margin
expansion, so we have real momentum.
I would like to highlight the work of our Oil & Gas team as a good example of our execution. In a tough environment,
with organic revenue declining by 7%, they grew margins by 100 basis points organically and held earnings. This will
position them well in a volatile industry.
Now cash is also a good story for the year. Industrial CFOA is up 23% year to date. Industrial free cash flow is up 53%.
And as is typical, we expect a strong fourth quarter, where we expect a $2 billion reduction in working capital, similar
to last year.
The great portfolio execution mentioned by Keith will allow for upside in our cash performance. Based on accelerated
progress in capital asset sales, we should be able to dividend an additional $2.5 billion to the parent in the fourth
quarter, and this would be $3 billion for the year. This will put the company at the high end of our CFOA range. And
an effective Synchrony execution should return about $20 billion to investors through a share exchange, and this will
put us about $30 billion of cash returned to investors for the year through dividend and buyback.
We still expect Appliances to close in the quarter. This is not a complicated transaction. Appliances is a highly
competitive industry with at least seven manufacturers and 21 brands. Electrolux wants to close and is working hard to
do so. So the GE balance sheet is very strong, and we will finish the year with substantial liquidity.
And now over to Jeff to go through operations.
Jeffrey S. Bornstein
Great. Thanks, Jeff. I'll start with the third quarter summary.
We had revenues of $31.7 billion, which were down 1% in the quarter. Industrial revenues, including corporate, were
down 2% to $25.8 billion. Industrial operating plus Vertical EPS was $0.29, up 16% year over year, with Industrial up
9% and the Verticals up 50%.
Company Name: GE
Company Ticker: GE US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 16
Operating EPS number of $0.32 adds in other continuing GE Capital activity, including the Consumer segment,
headquarter runoff and other exit-related items, which I'll cover in more detail on the GE Capital page. Continuing EPS
of $0.28 includes the impact of non-operating pension, and net EPS of $0.25 includes the impact of discontinued
operations. The total disc-ops impact for the quarter was a negative $347 million, which included $1 billion of
exit-related non-cash charges. These charges are within the framework of the $23 billion exit impact that we
communicated in April.
Partly offsetting the charge was income associated with operations in CLL and real estate, which were moved to
disc-ops earlier in the year. As Jeff said, we generated $6.5 billion of CFOA year to date, which was down 9%, driven
by lower GE Capital dividends. However, Industrial CFOA was $6.1 billion year to date, up 23%.
The GE tax rate was 17%, bringing the year-to-date rate to 20%, which is in line with our current estimate for the total
year rate. The GE Capital reported rate was a negative 6% in the quarter, which includes tax benefits associated with
the plan to shrink GE Capital. The Vertical tax rate was 0%. As we communicated previously, as we complete the GE
Capital restructuring, we expect the Verticals tax rate to be low double digits.
On the right side, you can see the segment results. Industrial segment revenues were down 1% on a reported basis but
up 4% organically, reflecting about five points of headwind from foreign exchange.
Foreign exchange was a $1.2 billion drag on Industrial segment revenue and $165 million impact on Industrial segment
op profit. Despite this headwind, Industrial segment operating profit was up 5%. And organically, the Industrial
segments were up 9%. GE Capital Vertical earnings of $351 million in the quarter were up 55%.
Next, I'll go through the earnings walk. Consistent with last quarter, we included a walk of the different elements of our
earnings so that the dynamics are clear given all the moving pieces with GE Capital.
Starting with the first column on the left and working down, Industrial operating net income was $2.6 billion and
Vertical income was $351 million, for a total Industrial plus Verticals operating earnings of $2.9 billion. The GE
Capital Consumer segment earned $795 million during the quarter, which I'll cover later.
On the other GE Capital line, we incurred $411 million of cost, driven by exit-related tax and restructuring charges,
headquarter runoff, operating expenses, and excess interest. As a result, total operating earnings were $3.3 billion.
Including non-operating pension costs, continuing earnings were $2.9 billion. Discontinued operations were a charge of
$347 million, which I discussed on the previous page. Adjusting for these items, net earnings for the quarter were $2.5
billion. In the center and far right columns, you can see the associated EPS numbers and the variance versus prior year.
Next page on one-time items, we had $0.02 of charges related to ongoing Industrial restructuring and other items, as we
continue to drive the cost competitiveness of the company. Charges were $346 million on a pre-tax basis and $244
million after tax. About 45% of those charges related to restructuring in our Oil & Gas business, as we continued to
execute on our cost-out program. We had no Industrial gains in the quarter.
On the bottom of the page, you can see the fourth quarter estimate. We're expecting gains from Appliances, signaling,
and embedded systems transactions in the quarter. For the year we continue to expect gains and restructuring to be
balanced on an EPS basis. We've increased our expected restructuring from $0.11 to about $0.14 due to the higher
gains we expect for the year. We have additional attractive restructuring opportunities, including Alstom, which will
offset the higher gains.
Now I'll go through each of the segments starting with Power & Water. Orders in the quarter were up 8% and up 13%
organically. Equipment orders were up 7% to $3.5 billion on strength in Distributed Power, higher by 61%,
Renewables up 2%, partly offset by Thermal down 6%. Distributed Power was higher driven by two fast-track power
deals in Indonesia and Ghana, and our first order for six LM6000 PF+ units in Thailand. The new LM6000 PF+ attains
56 combined cycle efficiency, which is the highest in its class. It takes half the time to install versus its predecessor and
can start up to full power in about 10 minutes.
Renewables orders were up 2%, up 14% excluding FX on strong international orders. Unit volumes were lower at 821
versus 839 a year ago, but megawatts were up 9%. Thermal orders were down 6%, down 2% ex-FX. We took orders
Company Name: GE
Company Ticker: GE US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 16
for 22 gas turbines versus 23 last year. The business booked four H orders in the quarter, two in Pakistan, one in Korea,
and one in the U.S. This brings our total H units in backlog to 21, with an additional 47 technical ones, a seven unit
increase from the second quarter.
Service orders grew 8% to $3.4 billion, driven by strength in PGS, up 10%. We continue to see success in our upgrade
campaigns, including AGPs, Dry Low NOx, OpFlex, all of which enhance the performance of our machines. In the
quarter, we booked 22 AGPs, up 4 from the third quarter of last year.
Revenues in the quarter were up 1% and higher by 7% organically. Equipment revenue was down 6%, driven by
Thermal down 10% on 16 gas turbine shipments versus 26 a year ago. And Distributed Power was down 13% on lower
engine volume, principally driven by weak demand in the gas compression market. Renewables revenues were up 8%
and up 19% excluding exchange on higher shipments of 735 wind turbines versus 642 last year. Service revenues were
strong, up 9%, led by PGS, up 13%, driven principally by upgrade sales. AGPs totaled 22 in the quarter versus 18 a
year ago.
Op profit was higher by 7% and up 10% organically. Margins improved 100 basis points, driven by service growth and
cost productivity. As we look to the fourth quarter, no change to the framework we've given you on gas turbines and
Distributed Power. Wind is trending to the low end of the range we had given you previously of 3,000 turbines to 3,200
turbines.
Next, Oil & Gas, the business continues to perform in a very difficult environment. Orders in the quarter were down
38% and down 32% organically. All segments saw lower orders given the constrained CapEx environment and project
delays. Equipment orders were down 60%, with TMS down 57%, driven by a large Canadian LNG push out. Subsea
was down 81%, with softness in both drilling and well stream. Downstream was down 58%, Surface was down 49% on
lower rig counts, and M&C was down 22% on softness in flow and process technology.
Service orders for the quarter were down 13%, but down 4% organically, principally driven by Subsea and Surface,
down 26% and 39%, respectively. And that was partly offset by TMS, which was up 4% and up 20% organically on
higher installations.
Backlog in the third quarter ended at $22.3 billion, down 7% year over year. Revenues in the quarter were down 16%
to $3.9 billion and down 7% organically. Foreign exchange had a $400 million impact on revenue. Equipment revenues
were down 18% and down 8% organically, driven by Surface down 36% and Subsea lower by 12%, down 3%
ex-foreign exchange. Organically, TMS was down 3% and Downstream was up 12%. Service revenues were down
14% and down 5% organic, with M&C down 2%. Op profit was lower by 12% versus last year, and flat organically.
Foreign exchange was a $75 million headwind in the quarter.
The business continues to execute on cost of material deflation. Value gap was positive with a very modest price
impact. Margins improved 70 basis points and 100 basis points excluding the effects of exchange. Through three
quarters, revenues were down 13% and down 4% organically. Operating profit was down 10% reported and up 5%
organically. We expect volume pressure to persist into the fourth quarter. However, given the strong execution on
cost-out, we believe that for total-year, organic op profit will be about flat year over year or slightly better versus the
flat to down 5% guidance we provided earlier. The team is making strong progress on achieving a $600 million
cost-out goal for 2015, and is well positioned to deliver $1 billion-plus cumulatively of cost-out through 2016.
In Aviation, underlying travel demand continues to grow robustly, higher by 6.6% year-to-date August, with strength
domestically and internationally. The Middle East and Asia Pacific continue to be particularly strong. Air freight
volumes grew 2.6% through August. Orders in the third quarter of $6.5 billion were down 35%. The third quarter of
2014 included large orders received at the Farnborough Air Show.
Equipment orders were down 58%, driven by commercial orders. Last year, we booked $3.8 billion of GE9X orders
versus $600 million of GE90/9X orders this quarter. GEnx orders of $600 million were up three times, driven by
strength in China, and we had $800 million of LEAP CFM orders in the quarter. Commercial engines backlog of just
under $30 billion is higher by 22% versus last year. Military orders were down significantly on non-repeat of
international campaigns last year and soft U.S. demand.
Company Name: GE
Company Ticker: GE US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 16
Services were very strong. Service orders grew 13% on strong commercial spares growth, up 28% at $39.5 million a
day, and military services were higher by 76%. This was partly offset by overhaul volume being down. Revenue in the
quarter was up 5% to $6 billion. Equipment revenues were down 6%, with commercial down 1% and military down
20%. We shipped 64 GEnx units versus 65 last year. And services revenue was up 17%, with commercial spares higher
by 22% and military up 16%. Operating profit was up 7%, driven by strong services volume and value gap. Margins
expanded 30 basis points in the quarter. So another solid quarter from the Aviation team. The LEAP testing
performance remains on track with the first installs expected to be in service in mid-2016.
Next up is Healthcare. Orders of $4.5 billion were down 4% reported, but up 3% organically. Geographically, the U.S.
was down 1%, Europe was up strongly ex-foreign exchange by 11% and down 5% reported. China was flat and the
Middle East grew 15%.
In terms of product lines, Healthcare systems orders were down 7%, but up 1% ex-foreign exchange. In the U.S., orders
were up 2%, driven by strength in CT and MR, which were higher by 10% and 15%, respectively, partially offset by
weak x-ray. The U.S. appears to have performed in line with the market. Europe was strong, again, up 7% organically
and that's the fifth consecutive quarter of positive organic growth for us in Europe. The Middle East grew 22%, China
was down 14% as orders continued to be impacted by lower public tenders.
The private sector orders are growing at double-digit rates in China, but off a much smaller base than the public market.
Life Sciences orders grew 11% organically and 4% reported. Bioprocess grew 23% excluding FX, with very strong
demand in Europe, up 42% and in China up 162%. Healthcare revenues were down 5% in the quarter, up 2% excluding
the impact of foreign exchange. Healthcare systems was up 1% and Life Sciences grew 8% excluding FX. Operating
profit in the quarter was down 10% and down 4% organically. Negative leverage was driven by lower value gap and
higher new product spend, which more than offset the cost productivity in the business. Margins contracted 90 basis
points in the quarter.
The third quarter was impacted by lower-than-expected volume in the growth markets and accelerated new product
spend to drive future growth. The business is seeing strong customer interest in productivity analytics, and as a result
has accelerated their migration to the Predix platform and development of predictivity applications. In the fourth
quarter, we expect this level of higher product investment to continue, and we expect growth markets to remain
challenging and developed markets to continue to show positive organic growth.
In Transportation, North American carloads were down 2.2%, primarily driven by lower coal and petroleum down
about 9%, and that was partly offset by 2% intermodal growth. Year to date, rail volume is down about 1%. Orders in
the quarter were down 77% or about $3 billion, as we expected, driven by locomotives. In the third quarter of 2014, we
took a threefold increase or about 1,100 units in orders for Tier 4. 2014 large order intake, combined with the current
global commodity cycle, is pressuring demand for incremental locomotive power. However, we are working on several
large opportunities and expect fourth quarter locomotive orders to be much stronger.
Revenues in the quarter grew 3%, driven by services up 10% and locomotive equipment revenues were up 11%,
partially offset by mining. Operating profit was up 11%, driven by volume, productivity and deflation more than
offsetting Tier 4 ramp costs. Margins improved 160 basis points.
In Energy Management, orders of $2.1 billion were up 2% and up 8% organically, driven by strength in Renewables
and our Power Conversion business, which grew orders 16%, up 26% organically. Power Conversion's renewable
orders were up over 4 times on deals won in conjunction with both GE and Alstom, which offset the weak Oil & Gas
Marine segment. Digital Energy orders were up 20% and Industrial Solutions was down 13%.
Revenues in the quarter were down 2% reported, but up 6% ex-exchange. Organically, Power Conversion was up 15%,
Digital Energy was up 8% and Industrial Solutions was flat. Operating profit was higher by more than 2 times to $127
million in the quarter. Higher earnings, driven by strong cost productivity and value gap, partly offset by negative FX.
Margins improved 390 basis points in the quarter.
Company Name: GE
Company Ticker: GE US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 16
And then Appliances & Lighting. For the segment, revenues grew 8% in the quarter, with Appliances up 10% on strong
volume and Lighting up 5%. The U.S. appliance industry was up 8%, with retail up 9% and contract up 7%. Lighting
continued to grow LEDs. LED revenue grew 65%, partially offset by a 15% decline in traditional products. LEDs now
account for 39% of Lighting revenue, up from 25% a year ago. Op profit in the quarter was up 88%, driven by material
deflation and cost productivity.
Next I'll cover GE Capital. Our Vertical businesses earned $351 million this quarter. That's up 55% from prior year,
driven by transactional gains and lower annual impairments in our Aviation business, partially offset by Oil & Gas
impairments in our Energy business. Portfolio quality remains stable, and GECAS finished the quarter with zero
delinquencies and no AOGs.
Working down the page, Consumer earned $795 million during the quarter, up 28% on gains related to portfolio exits
in the international platform, partially offset by Synchrony minority interest. Our share of Synchrony earnings was
$493 million. As in prior quarters, CEO Margaret Keane will host Synchrony's earnings call later today. As Keith
covered, we received approval from the Federal Reserve to proceed with the Synchrony separation and intend to launch
the share exchange next week subject to market conditions.
GE Capital Corporate generated a $411 million loss in the quarter, driven by GE Capital exit-related tax and
restructuring charges, excess interest expense, and headquarters operating costs. Discontinued operations ended the
quarter with a $347 million loss, driven by a $1 billion non-cash charge associated with the execution of our portfolio
exit strategy, partially offset by operating results in the underlying businesses. These charges are in line with the $23
billion total cost construct we shared with you in April. Overall, GE Capital reported $387 million of earnings, and we
ended the quarter with $176 billion of continuing ENI excluding liquidity. The Verticals ended the quarter with $78
billion of ENI excluding liquidity.
Our liquidity levels remain strong, and we ended the quarter with $97 billion, including $15 billion attributable to
Synchrony. As part of GE Capital's internal reorganization, we launched a debt exchange to capitalize our international
entity and to better align our assets and liabilities from a maturity and liquidity perspective. The exchange was
oversubscribed and we accepted $36 billion of new bonds, which were priced on October 5, and we'll settle the
transactions on October 26.
Our Basel 3 Tier 1 common ratio was 13.7%, which is up 230 basis points from the second quarter. We expect to
achieve 14% Tier 1 common ratio by year end, inclusive of the additional $2.5 billion dividend that Keith mentioned
previously.
Just some highlights on the right-hand side of the page, the Verticals are on track to deliver $1.5 billion of earnings in
2015. Asset sales are ahead of plan with $126 billion signed and $60 billion closed. Once completed, the Synchrony
exchange will trigger the Consumer segment to move to discontinued operations. Given our significant progress, we
plan to apply for SIFI de-designation in the first quarter of 2016. In the last six months, Keith and the GE Capital team
have continued to deliver operationally and are well ahead of the plan on the portfolio transformation we shared with
you in April.
With that, I'll turn it back to Jeff.
Jeffrey R. Immelt
Thanks, Jeff.
Just to conclude, we have a few updates on the operating framework. We've kept the Industrial EPS expectations at
$1.13 to $1.20. If Appliances close, we will be closer to the high end of this range. And our execution on our organic
growth, margins, and corporate costs remain strong.
We expect the GE Capital Verticals to be at least $0.15, with more strength in GECAS, and capital asset sales should
be at least $100 billion with more coming in the first quarter. CFOA should be about $16 billion, and free cash flows
Company Name: GE
Company Ticker: GE US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 16
plus divestitures would be about $15 billion assuming that Appliances closes. And we expect to return $30 billion to
investors about, reflecting the impact of Synchrony.
GE is executing on its investor commitments and is on track for its 2015 goals. Our portfolio transformation is
happening at an unprecedented pace. We have a focused infrastructure business with leading positions in our markets,
and we're positioned to grow faster than our competitors with a strong dividend. We're growing operating and gross
profit margins and making corporate smaller. We have nearly a $200 billion backlog of services that positions the
company well for any cycle. And we're transforming GE into the world's premier digital industrial company, in a
unique position to drive outcomes for customers and grow margins.
I'd like to take a moment to acknowledge the work of the GE team. Last quarter we completed our largest Industrial
acquisition, completely repositioned GE Capital, and launched one of the largest ever IPOs. At the same time, we're
winning in the market and delivering strong financial results. I'm very proud of their work.
Now, Matt, back to you for questions.
Matthew G. Cribbins
Thanks, Jeff. Lots to talk about, let's open the lines up for questions.
Q&A
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Scott Davis with Barclays.
<Q - Scott Reed Davis>: Hi, good morning, guys. Is there a sense, Jeff – and either Jeff I guess. But, Jeff Immelt, is
there a sense with the fall-off you've seen in orders that there's any risk we are entering a bit of an industrial recession,
particularly as it relates to growth markets?
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: So, Scott, what I would say going around the world is the U.S. gets a little bit better every
day. Europe is appreciably better, but clearly the growth markets are highly differentiated in terms of their performance
and have some headwinds as it pertains to oil prices and things like that.
On balance, Scott, we see as much activity as we've ever seen. So the quoting activity, the deal activity, things like that
is still quite robust. Business for us in China is still pretty good, which is a big market. And so we still see a fair amount
of opportunities out there even amongst the volatility. So I really believe that we can still accomplish our long-term
goals in the world we see today.
And then I would just remind you that we've got a $200 billion backlog of services. It's 70% or 80% of our earnings.
It's growing organically 8%, so we've got a pretty robust underpinning of the total company as we go forward. But the
quote activity is as robust today as it was six months ago or a year ago.
<Q - Scott Reed Davis>: Okay, that's helpful. And then it's a little bit of a strange question, but those of us who have
followed you guys for a long time have seen I think a higher sense of urgency or at least an execution level that's been
pretty high in the last year or so. Like you said, in the last six quarters you have beaten your margin targets or so. What
do you attribute? You had a big change in compensation structure that kicked in, in January. Are we seeing just the
benefit of past investments pulling through? And how do you think about – at least how do you attribute really this
higher level of execution and how GE is different today maybe than it was just three years ago?
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: So I would say, Scott, I would say again, great team. The compensation plan clearly helps. I
think we made the investments three years or four years or five years ago that are helping us today in product lines and
globalization and things like that. I mean, we don't – we have as robust of an NPI pipeline as we've ever had, and we
are not dependent on any one country. We've got a very diversified country mix, and that's some of the stuff that John
Company Name: GE
Company Ticker: GE US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 16
Rice had done. The last thing I would say, Scott, is look, there's no way to describe what it feels like to run GE where
the team knows exactly what it has to do over the next three years.
Our plan – we can't guarantee exactly what the macro environment is going to be, but between the GE Capital actions,
buying back stock, organic growth, integrating Alstom, you've got a leadership team that knows precisely what we
need to do for investors over the next three years, and that is a place we haven't been, and certainly since the financial
crisis, and that I think just helps everybody. It helps people who own the stock, and it gives the leadership team, I think,
extra momentum as we go forward.
Operator
The next question comes from Deane Dray with RBC Capital Markets.
<Q - Deane Dray>: Thank you. Good morning, everyone
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: Hey, Deane.
<Q - Deane Dray>: Hey, I had been thinking it might be too early to ask about some specifics for your Oil & Gas
outlook for 2016, but you did just disclose the cost-out plan and the increase to cumulative to $1 billion there. So
hopefully you can share some of your assumptions, maybe getting as granular as revenues and op profit for Oil & Gas
next year.
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: So, Deane, I would say, in that it's a market that is so visible and volatile. I think – I'd start
by reflecting a little bit on what we've done this year. So the team, I think, in a very tough environment, has gotten after
the costs, has executed in the market, has driven services, and so I think you'd say if you reflect back on where we were
in the fourth quarter last year and then where we sit today, I think our Oil & Gas team has done a fantastic job as it
pertains to this year.
And then I think if we look forward, and just – we don't assume that the market gets appreciably better. We would say
that revenue might be down 10% to 15% next year and then operating profit might be down 10% to 15% next year, and
that we hold margins in a tougher environment, and that's – I think that's the kind of feel that we have. And again, we
still want to go through and do all of our normal fourth quarter planning on the company. But I just think it's important
to investors to have some visibility in terms of how we think about Oil & Gas, and triangulating backlog and things like
that.
<Q - Deane Dray>: Just to clarify that 10% to 15%, that's an organic number?
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: Yes. Right, guys?
<Q - Deane Dray>: Right.
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: Yes, yes.
<Q - Deane Dray>: Good. And then related to Oil & Gas – and you mentioned going back to the fourth quarter when
oil was really still in a freefall – at the Outlook Meeting, Jeff, you said you could be opportunistic in looking at assets
in Oil & Gas. And would love to hear what your thinking is today. Is there any size parameters that you can share?
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: Look, guys, we still like this industry. I would go back, Deane, and – look, we never – as we
build our portfolio in Oil & Gas, we never thought about it reflecting $120 for oil or anything else. Our investment is
really made along the lines of – we felt like the industry was going to be growing in technical intensity, customer
solutions, that over time the Oil & Gas business will look a lot like our Aviation business or our Power business or
things like that, and that's what led to the investment.
So we are a long-term player in Oil & Gas. We like the industry. We're committed to the industry. I think as we look at
opportunities and where we are today, anything would have to hurdle above buying back our own shares. And so we'll
be opportunistic, we'll be disciplined and we have an alternative that we think is still quite attractive for us of buying
Company Name: GE
Company Ticker: GE US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 16
back our own shares.
<Q - Deane Dray>: Good, that's helpful. And just last question from me is one of the moving parts in the 2015
framework that is outside of your control is the timing, the assumption of the close of Appliances. That's really – that's
in the hands of Electrolux; it's in the hands of the regulators. So could you just remind us what that P&L impact would
be if that close gets pushed into 2016?
<A - Jeffrey S. Bornstein>: Deane, so you'll recall we talked about something that looked like a $0.06 a share gain
associated with Appliances. So if it get pushed out of the year, we'd probably rethink a little bit about what we're doing
on restructuring in the fourth quarter. We would consolidate a full quarter of Appliances earnings which would be a bit
of an offset. And more likely than not, that would probably entail a breakup fee. So we still think we're well within the
range of $1.13 to $1.20, but probably that would push us to the bottom end of that range versus being at the top. So we
thought through that and we've also thought through it in terms of cash. I think we're fine, we're closing on Alstom and
doing everything we need to do around cash flow even without closing Appliances.
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: I think, Deane, the base assumption is still that we close this deal. I think Jeff has given you
– I think it's always good to scenario-plan, but the base assumption still is that we finish – I don't see any reason why
we shouldn't, but to your point, it's not completely under our control.
Operator
The next question is from Steven Winoker with Bernstein.
<Q - Steven E. Winoker>: Thanks, and good morning.
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: Hey, Steve.
<Q - Steven E. Winoker>: Hey. So, since you started to talk about 2016 a little bit, I'm going to just push the envelope
here. The way I'm looking at it anyways, if you hit that midpoint around $1.15 to $1.20 you talk about on 2015 EPS, it
looks like $1.17, you're telling us you've got $0.10 from Synchrony; you've got something like, based on the GECC
buyback, $0.06 to $0.08; you've got Alstom now, you're talking about I think $0.06 minimum. So, without assuming
any other growth from your Industrial business, that's up like 20 – more than $0.20 there. And then GECC, I'm not sure
what you guys are thinking for that, but we're certainly starting to get into that well north comfortable of $1.50,
especially if you could hold Oil & Gas flat. Is that – am I thinking about this in the right way?
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: What I would say, certainly, the pieces you are putting together, Steve, hang together. I
would say, Oil & Gas is going to be down next year. That's got to be the working assumption. I think the focus Jeff and
I are going to have is to try to offset that with lower corporate, as we think about next year. So we want to run corporate
lower. And then I would say, look, we're going to give you guys a full estimate on all the other pieces of our Industrial
outlook in December. But, look, we've got strong services, strong services growth, big backlogs and we're going to win
some nice orders in the fourth quarter. And I just – I feel like we're going to look pretty good next year in the world we
see today.
<A - Jeffrey S. Bornstein>: Yes.
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: Jeff, would you like to add?
<A - Jeffrey S. Bornstein>: I think you got it exactly right. I don't think you can start with the premise of Oil & Gas
flat, having said that, Alstom is going to contribute, EPS accretion is going to contribute, no question about it, lower
corporate. We expect to be better operationally in the segments and we expect EPS is going to grow double digits next
year for sure.
Operator
Company Name: GE
Company Ticker: GE US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 16
The next question comes from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
<Q - Nigel Coe>: Thanks, good morning.
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: Hi, Nigel.
<Q - Nigel Coe>: Hi, Jeff. I just wanted to dig into 4Q. And obviously the orders, primarily a function of the tough
prior comp. The equipment backlog is pretty flat with where it was in 3Q. So I am wondering if you could just maybe
put a finer point on organic into 4Q. You're running at 4% year to date. I'm wondering how you view organic into 4Q.
<A - Jeffrey S. Bornstein>: We've got quite a range here on our expectation for fourth quarter orders, but generally
speaking, we expect them to comp much better than what you saw in the third quarter, both headline and organically.
So we've got some big orders in Transportation, some big orders in Power & Water we're looking to deliver in the
fourth quarter. We expect Aviation to be slightly better. So we think sequentially the fourth quarter is going to look
much better than the third quarter for sure.
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: Wait, are we talking revenue orders, Nigel? Because I think revenue in Q4 is going to look
fairly comparable to what it's been year to date.
<A - Jeffrey S. Bornstein>: Yes.
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: So we've been running – I think we're 4% organic revenue growth year to date. My hunch is
that's going to be pretty consistent with Q4.
Operator
The next question comes from Shannon O'Callaghan with UBS.
<Q - Shannon O'Callaghan>: Good morning, guys.
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: Hey, Shannon.
<Q - Shannon O'Callaghan>: Hey. So nice to see the higher GE Capital dividend for 2015. With the Wells deal and
Synchrony now done, Real Estate ranged, is 14% Tier 1 still the right base to be using, given that all those things are
now sort of clearly on their way out? And how are the international Consumer sales? Are there any things that would
make you still be using 14%?
<A - Keith S. Sherin>: Shannon, this is Keith. I'd say that's sort of the framework that we've agreed to with the
regulatory oversight that we have. So I don't see us changing that until we ultimately aren't under that same framework.
Right now, as you know, we ended the third quarter at 13.7%. I think with the asset sales in the fourth quarter, we'll go
up above 14%. We expect to dividend $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter based on those asset sales and our governance
process. And then we're on track for what we said we'd do in 2016.
But I wouldn't – I don't see that threshold really changing until you have a different regulatory environment. That's why
it's so important for us to continue to shrink. That's why it's important for us to target applying to not be a SIFI in the
first quarter. I think that's going to take some time and then when we get done with that, we still have our international
regulator. So I think you should assume that that's a threshold for some period of time for us, and we need to continue
to exit the businesses in a rapid pace and build the capital so that we can distribute it back to the parent.
Operator
The next question comes from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: Hey, Julian.
Company Name: GE
Company Ticker: GE US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 16
<Q - Julian Mitchell>: Hi, thanks, just a quick question on Healthcare. The profits ex-currency were up in Q2. They're
down mid-single digit Q3. I think you talk about R&D being hiked in the slide. So maybe just give an update on the
cost progress in Healthcare, particularly given the volume outlook in emerging markets and the fact that pricing is still
very challenging. I think you had talked before about Healthcare profits growing this year. I think they'll clearly be
down, but maybe give us some look in terms of the cost base entering next year.
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: So I would say first, just to echo part of your question, I think the developed world is better,
so U.S. and Europe are getting better. The emerging markets are mixed for Healthcare, but more headwind than
tailwind. What Jeff said in terms of really trying to convert our Healthcare IT business and get it on Predix and spend a
little bit of incremental R&D on that side of the business I think is something that we wanted to do this year to give us
some momentum going into next year.
And then I think the business has a whole series of variable cost productivity and product cost-out programs that are
going this year that have yet to bear fruit that I would expect to roll into – well into next year. So I think look, I think
the markets are challenging. We did some one-time investment this year, and it's our expectation that the team can
execute better going into the rest of 2015 and going into 2016.
<A - Jeffrey S. Bornstein>: I'll give you a little color on the third quarter since you asked it. Definitely, price was a
challenge in the quarter. We're down 1.9 points of price, so we had a negative $100 million of value gap. That was
definitely a challenge. But the business actually got pretty good productivity. We were well over $100 million in total
cost productivity in the quarter. And really what swung here was volume was a bit lighter than we thought it was going
to be, largely emerging markets, and we had about a $50 million incremental spend on R&D year over year to
accelerate the programs we talked about. And that's where the challenge came through.
Operator
The next question is from Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
<Q - Joseph A. Ritchie>: Thank you. Good morning, everyone.
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: Hey, Joe.
<Q - Joseph A. Ritchie>: Hey. So clearly there was an announcement recently that you guys have a new holder to
your top-10 list. I was just wondering how those conversations are going and whether there are any new incremental
portfolio or cost opportunities that have come from it.
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: I would say, Joe, I think the white paper lays out their thesis. And I think that's – we don't
agree with everything, but it's pretty consistent with what we've done and what we're doing. And so I don't think there
would be much to add to that. I don't know, Jeff...
<A - Jeffrey S. Bornstein>: We are laser-focused on margins and cost productivity, as we should be, reducing
corporate costs. That all lines up with Trian's white paper. And we're about executing on orders and revenue so we can
have that leverage fall through to our earnings.
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: Industrial balance sheet, pretty consistent with what we've said in the past, things like that,
Joe.
<A - Jeffrey S. Bornstein>: And that will be paced – the discussion around leverage will be paced by how quickly we
get through the de-designation process in GE Capital.
Operator
The next question is from Christopher Glynn with Oppenheimer.
Company Name: GE
Company Ticker: GE US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 16
<Q - Christopher D. Glynn>: Thanks, good morning.
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: Hey, Chris.
<Q - Christopher D. Glynn>: Hey. Just further to Julian's questions on Healthcare, we've seen emerging markets
become a much higher volume business over the past few years, and developing markets had a lot of regulatory dust
settling here. So just wondering if there are any permanent evolutions or resets in the served markets there where we
rethink what levels Healthcare performs at over the next five years.
<A - Jeffrey S. Bornstein>: I don't think so. Obviously, China has been a very strong growth market for Healthcare for
quite a period of time. You've got to remember, 74% of orders and roughly revenues come from developed markets
still. Even with all the emerging market growth we've had in Healthcare, we're still about almost three-quarters from
the U.S., Europe, Japan. So I don't think there's any change in the geographic footprint of where we think Healthcare is
going or where the growth is going to come from. We've got some particular markets that are challenging based on
commodities, FX, or politics. If you think about Russia, the Middle East, places like Iraq are very, very tough to comp
year over year. And we actually feel a little bit better that China is stabilizing a little bit for Healthcare. The
performance this quarter sequentially was better, and we think the tendering process is ultimately going to pick back
up.
When you think about China, the underlying fundamentals haven't changed. There are still 1.5 billion people. They're
still building hospitals. The private market in China is growing 15% to 20% a quarter. The slowdown in the public
tender as part of the campaign the government has been running there has put some slowness into what we've seen in
terms of order. But I don't think there's much of a change in footprint here on a go-forward basis, and we're still
three-quarters developed market-driven.
Operator
The next question is from Robert McCarthy with Stifel.
<Q - Robert Paul McCarthy>: Good morning, everyone.
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: Hi, Rob.
<Q - Robert Paul McCarthy>: Hey. How you're doing?
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: Good.
<Q - Robert Paul McCarthy>: I wanted to ask a question just about if we're heading into an industrial recession here
– and you may disagree with that premise – could you just talk a little bit about the prospect for combating deflation?
Because if we're in a deflationary environment and we have a multiyear down cycle where we're looking for a bottom
in terms of volumes and cutting price, isn't the portfolio actually set up for that, just given the installed base of
equipment and the service streams you have? Maybe you could just comment on that a little bit.
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: So, Rob, again, I come back and just – U.S. a little bit better every day, Europe stable to up,
and then emerging markets volatile. So I think that's – revenue passenger miles on aviation still positive. Demand, I
would say if you're in the gas and wind business and power, more positive than negative. Oil & Gas, tough for sure.
U.S. market in healthcare growing better, slower in emerging markets. In other words, the first thing I'd say is the
picture is a slow growth and volatility picture. And I think there are still pockets of growth out there pretty universally.
And then I would say look, the fact that we're a big installed base, recurring revenue model, margin efficient, capital
efficient, I think that's a positive for GE in this cycle. And then our value gap continues to run positive. So the ability of
us to source well in the marketplace is a tailwind, not a headwind.
<A - Jeffrey S. Bornstein>: I would just add, the fact we have a $270 billion backlog is very, very important in that
kind of environment, $200 billion of that in the service space.
Company Name: GE
Company Ticker: GE US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 16
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: Yes.
<A - Jeffrey S. Bornstein>: So from a price perspective, that's quite important. We're all about product and service
costs. So to maintain our profitability and grow it and to be competitive, we have got to drive it to the same dollars of
deflation that you're suggesting. So we are laser focused on this. The product and service cost competitively is just as
important as the actual technology we're selling. So we are on top of those.
Operator
The next question comes from Jeffrey Sprague with Vertical Research.
<Q - Jeffrey T. Sprague>: Thank you. Good morning, gentlemen.
<A - Jeffrey R. Immelt>: Hey, Jeff.
<Q - Jeffrey T. Sprague>: Hey, good morning. Thanks for the question. Hey, just a couple of cash and
liquidity-related questions. First, on the Capital side, if stuff is going a little bit richer than you thought, why not upside
to the $35 billion of Capital return over the program? And then just on the Industrial side, if you kind of work through
the pieces, you're kind of guiding 80% free cash flow conversion on Industrial. If we start with CFOA and take out GE
Capital dividend and account for CapEx, it's kind of an 80% conversion ratio. Is there anything going on this year that
kind of is conspiring negatively to that number? Should we see higher conversion into next year? Maybe you could just
kind of walk us through those dynamics.
<A - Keith S. Sherin>: Hey, Jeff. This is Keith. I'll just cover a little bit on the $35 billion. As we said, we do have a
little bit of price that we are getting, price-to-tangible book, so ahead of what our plan was by a bit, and that's been
offset by the fact that we're selling faster. We try to say that on the page. A lot of those transactions were estimated to
be later in 2016 and into 2017 and by selling them early, we're foregoing that future income.
On the other hand, in total we are expecting about 1.1 times price-to-tangible book. We're a little ahead. You can see
the U.S. assets that we've sold mostly so far are selling at 1.4 times price-to-tangible book, a little ahead of what we
thought, 1.3 times. And then the rest of the assets we think we've got them priced right. Overall will be just a little
ahead of the 1.1 times for the total $200 billion of sales. So I think we're right on the $35 billion and we feel pretty
good about it.
<A - Jeffrey S. Bornstein>: On CFOA for the year, we think our cash conversion ratio on CFOA and free cash flow
for the year is going to be closer to 84%, 85%, not 80%. So we actually think we're going to have a decent performance
on CFOA. We talked to you about a goal to get to 95% over the next two years to three years, we're laser focused on
that. I didn't suggest at any point in time we're going to do that in 2015.
Matthew G. Cribbins
Great, Jeff. A couple of quick announcements before we wrap up. The replay of today's webcast will be available this
afternoon on our website. We're going to hold our fourth quarter earnings webcast on Friday, January 22, and we're
going to hold our annual Outlook Meeting on Wednesday, December 16. Jeff?
Jeffrey R. Immelt
So, Matt, again I think a great execution quarter for the team. I just want to particularly congratulate all our GE Capital
folks for a great execution on the plan we laid out on April 10. And really we're thrilled about Synchrony, the value of
the company and we think this is going to be – the Synchrony transaction is going to be a great transaction for GE
investors and for Synchrony investors. So thanks, Matt. Everybody, have a good day.
Company Name: GE
Company Ticker: GE US
Date: 2015-10-16
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 16 of 16
Operator
This concludes our conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.