Company Name: Morgan Stanley
Company Ticker: MS US
Date: 2015-10-19
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 14
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Kathleen McCabe
• James Patrick Gorman
• Jonathan Pruzan
Other Participants
• Guy Moszkowski
• Glenn Paul Schorr
• Mike L. Mayo
• Michael R. Carrier
• Brennan McHugh Hawken
• Devin P. Ryan
• Fiona M. Swaffield
• Christian Bolu
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Kathleen McCabe
Good morning. This is Kathleen McCabe, Head of Investor Relations. Welcome to our Third Quarter Earnings Call.
Today's presentation may include forward-looking statements which reflect management's current estimates or beliefs,
and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. The presentation may also
include certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please see our SEC filings including this quarter's earnings release and
financial supplement at www.morganstanley.com for a reconciliation of such non-GAAP measures to the comparable
GAAP figures and for a discussion of additional risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of Morgan
Stanley. This presentation, which is copyrighted by Morgan Stanley and may not be duplicated or reproduced without
our consent, is not an offer to buy or sell any security or instrument.
I will now turn the call over to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, James Gorman.
James Patrick Gorman
Thank you, Kathleen. Good morning and apologies for my winter cold. I wanted to start off just by saying that
obviously after a relatively strong first half, the third quarter was obviously disappointing and reflected a difficult
market environment throughout the quarter.
Before we discuss some of the things that are behind these numbers and that drove this result, let me touch on a few of
the positive aspects of the last three months. Our M&A franchise remains strong this quarter, benefiting from a robust
steel environment. While much of the underwriting calendar was deferred from the third quarter, we expect the
business to take place in the fourth quarter and early 2016.
Equities once again finished number one in the US this quarter, and we expect to be number one once all global peers
have reported over the coming weeks. After a strong first half, the business held together in a challenging environment
across regions and products, including cash, derivatives and prime brokerage. We expect this trend to continue.
Company Name: Morgan Stanley
Company Ticker: MS US
Date: 2015-10-19
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 14
Our Wealth Management franchise was impacted by lack of new issue product and a general retail investor stepback
from markets, given volatility. While we do not expect this to be a long-term trend, we remain focused on expenses in
the meantime. Our year-over-year earnings improved in spite of lower revenues, and we generated a 23% margin,
which is consistent with our stated goals.
Turning now to the challenges, of which there are three to note, and of which Jon will take you through in more detail
in a moment. First and obviously, fixed income underperformed in the quarter, largely due to a very challenging market
environment in which we were significantly impacted, given our business mix, particularly our focus on credit and
rates. Second, most of the investment management business performed solidly, but the aggregate results significantly
underperformed. This was driven largely by a reversal of carry in our Asia private-equity business, a business which
historically has been a strong contributor for over a decade.
And third, we also had $320 million in legal expenses in the quarter, an increase of $250 million from last year, driven
largely by the settlement of the CDS litigation. We remain focused on resolving outstanding legal issues and have made
significant progress to date. Notwithstanding the challenges of the quarter, our core long-term strategy remains in
place, namely a balanced business model in which the consistency of Wealth Management offsets potential volatility in
institutional securities. The team is highly focused on those levers within our control that enable us to manage the
business in a way that reflects the environment we're in and whatever environment we may face in the future. This
includes a continued focus on expenses.
We recently made significant management changes in two businesses to better leverage our business model. Ted Pick,
who has managed equities to the number one position on the street, has become Global Head of Sales and Trading.
Having institutional equities, fixed income and research under Ted will allow us to leverage our infrastructure while
continuing to make sensible investments in the ongoing electronification of both our equities and fixed income
franchises. Dan Simkowitz has become the Head of Investment Management, which includes merchant banking, real
estate investing and traditional asset management. Dan will report directly to me and work to broaden our platform and
products while leveraging distribution channels that we have in place. Investment management is an important business
for Morgan Stanley for the future, and deserves our intense focus.
Finally, our capital funding and liquidity positions remain robust.
With that, Jon will take you through the quarter in more detail and will open up for questions to both of us. Thank you
very much.
Jonathan Pruzan
Thank you, James. Good morning, everyone. I will review our quarterly financial performance and business results and
then James and I will be happy to take your questions. Before I discuss the individual businesses, I will first make a few
comments on our overall performance. The quarter was very challenging. In contrast to the first half, the third quarter
backdrop was less constructive. Besides the normal summer seasonality, the quarter was characterized by global equity
markets trending lower, volatility metrics increasing, spreads widening, policy uncertainty and periodic bouts of risk
aversion. Against this backdrop, revenues were $7.8 billion in the third quarter, or $7.3 billion excluding DVA, down
20% versus second quarter 2015, or 23% excluding DVA.
Our expenses for the quarter were $6.3 billion, down 10% versus $7 billion in 2Q 2015. Compensation expense was
$3.4 billion, down 22%, versus $4.4 billion last quarter, driven by lower revenues. Non-compensation expenses were
$2.9 billion, up 9% versus $2.6 billion in 2Q 2015, driven by an increase in litigation reserves which included an
increase related to the settlement of the credit default swap antitrust litigation matter. Our effective tax rate of
approximately 29% was lower than last quarter, driven by our geographic mix of earnings. ROE for the third quarter
was 5.6%, or 3.9% ex-DVA.
Now to the businesses. Our institutional securities franchise had a difficult third quarter with revenues of $3.9 billion or
$3.5 billion, excluding DVA, down 25% and 30%, respectively, versus second quarter of 2015. We saw
Company Name: Morgan Stanley
Company Ticker: MS US
Date: 2015-10-19
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 14
underperformance in fixed income, driven by a relative mix of our business, primarily by lower revenue in credit and
securitized products in a challenging credit market, in addition to lower activity and rates, given investor uncertainty on
Fed action.
More broadly, in our Sales & Trading and Capital Market businesses, we were impacted by seasonality and lower than
typical levels of activity in September. However, we continued to demonstrate strength in several key franchises.
Equity sales and trading revenues were strong as clients remained engaged across regions and products. And in
advisory, we had our best quarter in several years as M&A volumes remain strong.
Noninterest expense was down 9% versus the second quarter. Non-compensation expenses were $1.9 billion for the
quarter, up 15%, driven primarily by increased litigation reserve I mentioned previously. Compensation expenses were
$1.3 billion, down 31% quarter-over-quarter. Excluding DVA, the ISG compensation ratio was held flat at the first half
rate of 38%.
In Investment Banking, we saw strong performance in our M&A business, offset by weakness in the debt and equity
underwriting markets, resulting in Investment Banking revenues of $1.2 billion, down 18% sequentially. As of
September 30, Morgan Stanley ranked number one in global IPOs, number two in global announced M&A, and number
three in global equity. In advisory, we benefited from a continuation of a robust M&A market. We saw strength in
cross border M&A and large cap transactions, and acted as M&A advisor on several of the quarter's most significant
transactions. We acted as sole financial advisor to Cigna on their merger with Anthem in a transaction valued at $54
billion in cash and stock. The combined company will be the leading health insurer in the U.S. Morgan Stanley also
acted as sole financial advisor to ACE on their acquisition of Chubb for $28 billion in cash and stock.
Advisory revenues for the quarter were $557 million, 32% higher than the second quarter. The M&A pipeline remains
strong, up both year-over-year and sequentially. We have seen a strong start to deal activity in the fourth quarter, and
board room engagement and dialogue remains high.
Turning to underwriting. Our underwriting business showed significant – slowed significantly, as the typical pickup in
September deal activity was delayed due to uncertain markets. We had a significant number of deals delayed in
September. For the market, equity underwriting volume was down 55%, IPO underwriting volume was down 72%, and
debt underwriting volume was down 23% versus last quarter.
Underwriting revenues were $624 million this quarter, down 39% versus last quarter. Equity underwriting revenues
were $250 million, down 49% versus second quarter, primarily reflecting declines across all products, particularly for
IPOs and follow-ons.
Fixed income underwriting revenues were down 29% versus the second quarter, driven by decreases in both investment
grade and non-investment grade loan and bond underwriting. Notable underwriting transaction in the quarter include, in
Equity, Morgan Stanley acted as joint underwriter and joint lead manager on a $3.6 billion rights offering for
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. We also acted as a joint global coordinator, lead left bookrunner, and stabilization
agent for Citizens Financial Group in their $2.6 billion follow-on offering.
In Capital Markets, we see a strong pipeline building for future quarters, as clients await a more stable market. As
volatility abates, we would expect to see a pickup in activity. In the first 12 days of the quarter, we have begun to see
many of the delayed deals from September's price, however the sustainability of this activity will be predicated on the
market backdrop.
Coming off of two strong quarters, equity sales and trading again was solid against a backdrop of significantly more
volatility. The business remained number one in the U.S. and we believe we continue to be number one globally, driven
by our focus on clients and execution, which has led us to our leadership position.
Ex-DVA, revenues of $1.8 billion in the quarter were down 22% sequentially, but essentially flat year-over-year, as
clients remained active and engaged.
Cash equity revenues were down versus the second quarter and year-over-year, driven by a more challenging
environment, including a lighter primary calendar and periods of risk aversion. Prime brokerage revenues remained
Company Name: Morgan Stanley
Company Ticker: MS US
Date: 2015-10-19
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 14
solid, although down from a very strong second quarter, which is seasonally high, related to European dividend
activities. Revenues were up year-over-year, due to increased client engagement.
Derivative revenues were down quarter-over-quarter, driven by lower corporate derivative activity but remained strong
and were up year-over-year. Year-to-date, we have delivered strong performance in equities with revenues excluding
DVA up 19% year-over-year. Despite very different market backdrops, we have been able to serve our clients' needs
while prudently managing risk.
In Fixed Income and Commodities, we saw a very challenging market environment. We were particularly impacted by
spread widening in credit and mortgages and lower levels of client activity and rates throughout the quarter. For the
quarter, Fixed Income and Commodities sales and trading revenue were $583 million, excluding DVA, down 54%
versus the second quarter. Revenues in credit and securitized products were hardest hit and were down significantly
quarter-over-quarter due to difficult market conditions.
Rates – revenues in the quarter were down sequentially, driven by significant policy uncertainty that led to sporadic
client activity and engagement. FX results were up modestly versus second quarter as increased volatility led to
continued client engagement. Over time, FX has been a much smaller relative business for us. Commodities results
were up modesty quarter-over-quarter and our risk-weighted assets ex-lending ended the quarter at $158 billion,
essentially flat to second quarter.
The fourth quarter in Sales & Trading is typically seasonally weakest. So far in the quarter, some of the key drivers that
will likely drive client activity are mixed. Drivers of near term uncertainty, including the Fed, China, commodities and
global growth have not diminished; however, we have seen a modest rebound in global markets and reduction in some
volatility indices including the VIX. Investment revenues were up quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year driven by
gains on business-related investments. Other revenues were down versus last quarter, driven primarily by markdowns
on our relationship and event books. Lastly, average trading VAR for the second quarter was $53 million, stable versus
last quarter. Although we saw increases in volatility, it was offset by a reduction in risk.
Turning to Wealth Management. Our Wealth Management business provided stability in the quarter, even in a turbulent
and declining global market. While revenues were down 6% for the quarter, largely driven by lower marks in our
deferred compensation plans, we maintained a 23% margin. Our bank strategy continue to play out as we have
previously discussed. Over the past few years, our daily revenues are a good indication of the stability and consistency
of our Wealth Management business, and they have consistently been between $50 and $70 million with no day
year-to-date below this range.
Asset management revenues were flat from last quarter with higher revenues from fee-based accounts, partially offset
by lower mutual fund activity. Global fee-based asset inflows were $7.7 billion in the quarter, continuing the trend we
see toward client demand for managed accounts. Total fee-based client assets were $770 billion at quarter end,
representing 40% of client assets. The assets are down quarter-over-quarter, reflecting the market decline of the third
quarter.
We saw a continued softness in transactional revenues, which were down 25% compared to the last quarter. This was
primarily driven by lower marks in our deferred compensation plans, as well as lower new issue activity consistent with
the slower equity underwriting calendar which impacted ISG. Transactional revenues were also impacted by subdued
levels of retail investor activity, driven by ongoing uncertainty and global volatility.
Our deposit deployment strategy continues to yield results. Net interest income revenue increased 2%
quarter-over-quarter, driven by steady, prudent growth in lending, consistent with the continued execution of our U.S.
bank strategy. Funded lending balances in Wealth Management grew approximately $3 billion during the quarter and
$12 billion year-over-year. In the mortgage business, average FICO scores continue to be greater than 750 with
weighted average LTVs of less than 65%. And securities-based lending remains highly over collateralized and
continued to perform well despite the quarter's volatility.
Noninterest expenses were $2.8 billion, down 6% quarter-over-quarter, showing continued expense discipline in this
business. Compensation expenses was $2 billion, down 8% quarter-over-quarter, driven by lower marks on deferred
Company Name: Morgan Stanley
Company Ticker: MS US
Date: 2015-10-19
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 14
compensation plans, and lower FA compensation as a result of lower compensable revenues. Non-compensation
expense was flat sequentially.
Deposits in our bank deposit program were $139 billion, up $7 billion versus the second quarter as clients moved into
cash in a volatile market. This is another indicator of subdued retail activity, but we would expect clients to redeploy
this cash over time.
Wealth Management representatives were up slightly versus the second quarter on lower attrition. This business not
only provides stability and consistency, but also growth. PBT for the first nine months of 2015 is up 14% over the same
period in 2014. In investment management, the quarter was difficult for Asia valuations, in particular in China and
modernization events, which resulted in revenues of $274 million, down 64% sequentially. The vast majority of the
sequential declines in revenue could be attributed to the reversal of previously accrued carried interest in our Asia
private equity business and no material gains in our other funds versus last quarter.
We have a strong history in Asia private equity and in particular China. This quarter, however, we had to reverse more
than two-thirds of the carry that our Asia private equity funds had accrued. This reversal accounted for virtually all of
the loss reported on the investments line in the investment management segment. The ultimate realization of carrying
these funds will be based on investment performance over the next several years.
In traditional asset management, revenues for the quarter were $389 million, down 10% quarter-over-quarter. The focus
in this business continues to be on product innovation, distribution and growth. For example, this quarter, we
transferred certain portfolio managers and their portfolios from Wealth Management to investment management to
better align our capabilities with client demand. This move allows the portfolio management teams to distribute their
strategies in multiple vehicles across a broader and fully integrated distribution channel, while also enhancing the
product mix available to our investment management clients.
Noninterest expenses were $312 million, down 41%, driven primarily by a reduction in compensation expense versus
last quarter due to a decrease in deferred compensation associated with carried interest. Total asset under management
ended the quarter at approximately $404 billion.
Turning to the balance sheet and capital, total assets were $834 billion at September 30, up from $826 billion at the end
of the second quarter. However, average balance sheet for the quarter was $828 billion, down from $848 billion in the
second quarter. Our global liquidity reserve at the end of the quarter was $191 billion compared with $188 billion at the
end of the second quarter.
Now on to capital. Reflecting our best estimate of the final Federal Reserve rules, our pro forma common equity Tier 1
ratio, based using the Basel III fully phased-in advanced approach was 12.4% at September 30. Pro forma fully
phased-in Basel III advanced RWAs are expected to be approximately $434 billion, up from $427 billion in the second
quarter. We estimate our pro forma supplementary leverage ratio under the U.S. final rules to be approximately 5.5% at
September 30, up from 5.3% at the end of the second quarter. All of these estimates are preliminary and subject to
revisions.
During the third quarter, we repurchased $625 million of common stock, or approximately 17 million shares, and our
board declared a $0.15 dividend per share.
With that, we will open up the line to questions.
Q&A
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Autonomous. Please go
ahead.
Company Name: Morgan Stanley
Company Ticker: MS US
Date: 2015-10-19
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 14
<Q - Guy Moszkowski>: Good morning. First, a question on equities. It is, as you pointed out, flat year-over-year, and
industry leading. But your peers were all up mostly double digits or very high single digits year-over-year. I guess the
question is, we know that some of the strengths year-to-date for – especially for firms with a strong prime brokerage
franchise has been from repricing of some of the more scarce resources, balance sheet driven activities. I guess the
question is, for you, has some of that pricing benefit lapped or anniversaried? Or are we – what we're actually seeing is
that underlying all of that, maybe you had more significant weakness in cash equities, like, because of blocks or
something?
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: So, Guy, there were a couple of different questions in there. I think, in terms of our equities
performance, as we said, we continue to maintain our leadership position and we are number one. Quarter-over-quarter,
all of the products were down. We obviously had a very strong first half. PB was down due to some lack of the
dividend seasonality that we see third quarter versus the second quarter, but as you said, up year-over-year. Derivatives
were lower quarter-over-quarter on less corporate derivative activity, but was up year-over-year. So the weakness
year-over-year was really in the cash product where we saw obviously a much more challenging market environment,
sporadic bouts of risk aversion, as well as slower primary calendar. The other point I would make is that the third
quarter of 2014 for us in equities is a very strong quarter, driven really by a very strong primary calendar. So it was a
tough comp from that perspective, but again, essentially flat year-over-year.
And then lastly, I think on the repricing question, I would answer it by saying that we've been focused on the returns of
the prime brokerage business and we have done that in partnership with our clients and looking at the relationship
holistically across the nine boxes that we've discussed before. We've done this through a combination of better business
mix, optimization and wider pricing, and we've seen the revenue per balance sheet uses increase over the last year. So
the prime brokerage has been and will continue to be a strong business for us, and it's been really a business that the
client engagement has led to good results.
<Q - Guy Moszkowski>: I guess just to hone in on that last part a little bit, were a lot of the pricing changes that you
were able to put through in the third quarter a year ago, and therefore, are we beginning to see kind of an anniversary
effect of the benefit that you get from that pricing?
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: I wouldn't necessarily describe it like that. We've been continually trying to optimize the
return we get on our assets, and I would say it's been an evolutionary process and we will continue to work with our
clients to deliver good products and a good relationship.
<Q - Guy Moszkowski>: Okay. Thanks. And then moving on to just to asset management, the decline in the
traditional revenues away from the merchant banking and real estate issues that we were talking about, the decline in
revenue there is about, I think, 17% year-over-year and yet your assets under management are flat. Do we attribute that
decline to a lack of performance fees relative to a year ago?
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: I'm sorry, in the traditional asset management business?
<Q - Guy Moszkowski>: If you look at the traditional line that you break out, the revenue in the third quarter is down
17% year-over-year, but the assets under management look like they are unchanged. And so I'm just wondering what's
driving that decline in the revenue. Is it performance fees that were not present in the current quarter or is there
something else?
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: No. I mean, I think it's more driven by mix. As you know, in that business, we have a narrow
product set in our equity businesses. We also are only in active products and we've seen, as you can see from that chart,
an increase in our liquidity product, where we have also seen decreases in certain of our equity products. As you see
from the disclosure, we have an emerging market fund that saw significant outflows this quarter. The other point that I
would make is that it's related somewhat to the markdowns on the deferred compensation plans that we've talked about
in the past, and that was also a driver to that decline.
<Q - Guy Moszkowski>: Got it. And then just a broad question on fixed. You know, given the results that you saw in
the quarter, and I'm conscious of the mix difference that you talk about between yourselves and many of your peers, but
does the sharp decline and the magnitude of the revenue at this point spark any incremental thinking as to size and
Company Name: Morgan Stanley
Company Ticker: MS US
Date: 2015-10-19
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 14
structure that's appropriate for the unit, or the risk management that's appropriate for the unit?
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: Well, listen, as we discussed in both James' and my comments, this was a very different
market that we saw in the first quarter. I think the volatility, the lack of conviction, the policy uncertainty coupled with
really no macro themes or events that investors embraced, so it was a very difficult market. It was not particularly
conducive for our relative business mix, as you mentioned. But keep in mind that we've reshaped and resized this
business based on the market opportunity that we think exists. We brought down our RWAs in this business by over
$200 billion. We brought down our balance sheet, we brought down our non-comp expenses, we brought down our
head count. We sold several commodities businesses and we've closed another one and we have also revamped our
distribution strategy.
We've resized this business while maintaining a presence across products and geographies, and we continue to optimize
this business in the face of challenges, both for the industry and the business. We have seen cyclical, secular, structural
and regulatory changes in this business, and many – and many of these have led to announcements, particularly out of
Europe of people rethinking their overall strategy. And we do think that this market dislocation can create opportunity
for us. But, we are focused on what we can control to drive improved performance. We have done a lot of work in this
business and we will continue to try to drive performance.
<A - James Patrick Gorman>: I will just add a couple of things to what Jon said, Guy. Firstly, if you look at the
performance of FIC this year, you have seen three very different quarters. First quarter, $1.4 billion in revenues, second
quarter $1.1 billion, obviously this quarter, a little under $600 million. Very different macro environments. Very
different performance. This one, the least favorable environment to the particular business we have, obviously. As Jon
said, this has been a multi-year journey. We have dramatically reduced RWAs in this business and restructured it. I
think combining the fixed income business with equities under the leadership of Mr. Pick here, will prevent
opportunities for further synergies with those businesses, which I would expect.
And we continue to watch the space very carefully. We are by no means complacent about this, and – but at the same
time, there are elements of our fixed income business which are essential to everything else that we do in Investment
Banking with our Wealth Management and so on. So, it's a continuing focus of us, but I'm not taking everything from
one single quarter. On the other hand, we want to make sure that if this isn't a long-term trend, then clearly, we will
take whatever steps we need to take.
<Q - Guy Moszkowski>: Okay. That's all very helpful. Thank you so much.
<A - James Patrick Gorman>: Sure.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI. Please go ahead.
<Q - Glenn Paul Schorr>: Hi, thanks. Just one follow-up on the FIC conversation, because I agree with you, Jon, that
all the stuff that you have done have been improvement in terms of reshaping and resizing, but the results are the results
and I don't want to focus on any one given quarter. Let's look year-to-date, let's look at the last five years, it doesn't
matter. FIC is still having a hard time becoming, I guess, a fully functioning business, such that in any given quarter,
[ph] if credit's bad, you overweigh credit (31:11). So, I guess, back to the same question. You move it under Ted's
supervision for a reason. What are you hoping that he can bring? Because he obviously did a great job in equities. But,
what are the things that transfer? What are the synergies that can come out of there, because I'm assuming the move
happens for a reason?
<A - James Patrick Gorman>: Well, Glenn, let me deal with that. Firstly, I think, let's give Ted a little time in the
saddle here to come back to, and I'm not going to speak for him right now. We will give him a little time to get his arms
around the business with the management team there, which they'll do. And I'm sure in the New Year, we'll be saying a
lot more about it.
Company Name: Morgan Stanley
Company Ticker: MS US
Date: 2015-10-19
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 14
But, you have to see our fixed income business in the context of everything else we have at Morgan Stanley. It is
obviously a significantly smaller business for us, than equities or Wealth Management. And frankly, has been smaller
than Investment Banking over the last couple of years. So, that's sort of the size of it relative to what we are doing as an
institution is an important factor here. The idiosyncratic aspect of credit for this quarter is obviously important. Clearly,
if foreign exchange was a weak quarter, then that would affect the universal banks differently from the way it would
affect us. So, I'm not going to get too caught up in one quarter's performance. We understand the issues with fixed
income. We are not alone in understanding those. I don't think there's a day that you don't read in the newspaper about
one of the large banks thinking through the new fixed income market, what it means in this very low rate environment,
and what the outlook is. And, given the regulatory changes, how much balance sheet and what sort of risk weighted
assets you can hold in the business.
As Jon said, we've made, frankly, very aggressive moves over three years, of bringing the RWAs down from $390-plus
billion to $150-plus billion today. We think bringing it together with equities and having one sales and trading business
is the most efficient and effective way to serve our clients, and we'll come back over time with whatever changes that
might imply.
<Q - Glenn Paul Schorr>: Okay. We'll move on. Just one other. In Asia private equity, I wondered – it was helpful,
you said over two-thirds of the accrued performance fees were reversed out. I don't know if you want to share what's
the dollar amount that's left just so people could see the downside. But the reality is I just want to make sure. The Asian
markets are up already in October, so does it swing as quickly on the other way if markets hold here? Would we see a
turnaround in the investment line and maybe you could size the amount of funds in the Asian private equity business?
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: So I think you picked up on one important point. I did say it's about two-thirds of the carry
from Asia private equity. I also mentioned that virtually all of the investment line in the IM segment would be driven
by that reversal. So hopefully that can give you a rough size. I'm not going to comment on where that carry will go
going forward. It's obviously going to be based on the investment performance and the valuations in the market. As
James said, we have a long history in Asia. We have a strong team that's been a good business for us. We're on Asia PE
Fund IV, so we've had four separate funds in that market. The first two are effectively finished and delivered strong
returns to investors. Fund III, even after the reversal of carry and the performance this quarter is above its preferred
return hurdle and fund IV is really in the investment period, but that is also above book value. So this has been a strong
business for us historically, just had a tough quarter and, again, carry going forward is going to be a function of
investments and valuation.
<Q - Glenn Paul Schorr>: Okay. Thanks you, guys, bye.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA. Please go ahead.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: Hi. I just want to try on the last question again. What was your write-down on the Asia private
equity this quarter? Since it's so large compared to other quarters, it would be helpful to have that number.
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: What I would say, Mike, is if you look at that line in our supplement, in terms of investment
it was negative $235 million this quarter versus a positive $232 million in second quarter. The two drivers of that is,
one, virtually all of that negative number can be attributed to the reversal of carry from our Asia PE business and two,
in the first – excuse me, in the second quarter, we saw significant monetization events across the entire fund complex
and we didn't see any material monetization events in this quarter. So that's how I would try to size that for you.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: As it relates to FIC, your RWAs are close to $150 billion. They are down a lot over the last few
years, but I thought you said that might start to increase. And there is also a late June "Wall Street Journal" article that
said that Morgan Stanley would weigh more of a comeback in fixed income. So the bigger picture question is, what
does Morgan Stanley want to be in FIC? On the one hand, you have the strategy of UBS, which really has retreated and
built the franchise around their Wealth Management business and that's really paying off and I know a lot of investors
Company Name: Morgan Stanley
Company Ticker: MS US
Date: 2015-10-19
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 14
kind of wanted Morgan Stanley to go the route of UBS. On the other hand you have some large US banks that still want
to be the dominant fixed income player. So, which is it? Because we are seeing some press reports, some RWA
forecasts that imply that you are getting big, and at the same time we see these articles we have, I think it's the worst
core FIC quarter since the financial crisis. So if you can provide some more color, that would be helpful.
<A - James Patrick Gorman>: Well, you're right about the last thing. I think it probably is the worst core FIC since
the financial crisis, Mike. And second, I think what we said was, if we saw opportunity as some of the non-core assets
rolled off, I think there was about $20 billion, if memory serves. We would be open to utilizing those, but we certainly
weren't expanding from where we are now. So it's more replacement opportunity, if you will, and we're obviously not
seeing that opportunity right now. So don't fret too much about that. On the newspaper article, again, if memory serves
me, that was something which I found a little bizarre. Actually related to the expansion of the mortgage business that
we are doing in Wealth Management, which has been a phenomenal business as we take relatively affluent people who
have money with us and we relend them the money back because they don't want credit liquidity in their portfolio. And
that has been a business with FICO scores I think about 750, loan to values at less than 65% thereabouts and almost
zero – I think we've had one credit loss out of over 20,000 individual loans. So pretty spectacular business. For some
reason the journalist wrote that headline that that expanding retail mortgage is implied are expanding mortgage trading
and fixed income. And it did not. We corrected it. And they said they understood, but, the press – the press had written
the story. So, don't worry about that. That was completely separate from what we are trying to do. So, the story remains
as is. I think, listen, we have radically restructured our fixed income business from what it was. Clearly, this quarter, it
did not perform anywhere near where we want and expect and need it to. The first quarter was very different. The
second quarter was about halfway between the two. And, watch this space. We're not complacent but, on the other
hand, we don't have a knee-jerk reaction based upon a 13-week period and a very unusual 13-week period at that. But,
on the other hand, we are focused on driving up returns for Morgan Stanley. We've been focused on that for many
years. We have seen the results of it on the Wealth Management side. We had, clearly, an unusual hiccup in the
Merchant Bank this quarter, which is highly unlikely to repeat itself. And the core banking and Equities businesses
continue doing what they are doing. So, I'm not sure I can add a whole lot more to it.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: How much do you have in the non-core assets left in FIC?
<A - James Patrick Gorman>: I don't think we have broken down the total amount. Jon.
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: Yeah, I think – Listen, as we've said, I think, in the beginning of the year that we had,
through passive mitigation, sum level about $25 billion of assets that would run off over time. As James said, we never
committed one way or another what we would do with that passive roll off. We look at our balance sheet and our
businesses holistically. If there were return opportunities across the platform, whether that be equity, fixed income, or
wealth, we'll put those assets to work. But those are basically the sizing of that number, Mike.
<A - James Patrick Gorman>: I can promise you one thing. If we do not see opportunity, we will not keep those
assets in-house. We will not keep the balance sheet in the position it is.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: And last question, James, or just a comment, you said a goal for Morgan Stanley is to show
better consistency. And this quarter did not show that consistency. So, how should investors think about this quarter in
context of your goal?
<A - James Patrick Gorman>: I hope that they would think it in context of 23 quarters that this management team has
presided over. It was a very unusual macro environment, the volatility in China was almost historic. July was – we
were still dealing with, will grease, won't grease. September was will she, won't she, which was Yellen and in the
middle was China, which went up and down in a six-month period at an extraordinary rate with artificial intervention
by the CSRC and other things that really threw the markets sideways. So, I would like to think that investors would see
those things for what they were, and focus on the core business strategy for what it is. We delivered 23% margin on
lower revenues in Wealth Management, which is exactly what we said we do in strategy. We had over $500 million in
fees in M&A, which is exactly in our wheelhouse of strategy. And we will, have, I think, when all fully report, the
number one equities franchise on the globe, which is exactly what we said we'd do in our strategy. So, I'm not making
excuses from it. We said right at the outset this was a difficult environment, but a disappointing quarter and it was. And
Company Name: Morgan Stanley
Company Ticker: MS US
Date: 2015-10-19
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 14
we hold ourselves accountable for that, and we will drive performance as a result of it.
<Q - Mike L. Mayo>: Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Carrier with Bank of America, Merrill Lynch, please go ahead
<Q - Michael R. Carrier>: All right. Thanks a lot. Jon, just on the Wealth Management business, if we look at the
transaction revenues, and not just for the quarter but even year-to-date, it looks like they have been weaker. And I don't
know if that's a transition of certain accounts into sort of the fee side or if it's just an environmental, but I also just
wanted to understand how significant – you mentioned like the deferred comp component, how significant is that for
the – for that line item?
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: For that line item specifically, if you look quarter-over-quarter, I think the revenues were
down 6%. If you back out the deferred comp impact in both quarters, it would be low single digits. So stable – pretty
stable revenues. The mix, as we've talked about in the past is the continuation of growth in the NII line. Continued
year-over-year growth in the fee – in the managed account line. And then some softness in the transactional revenues.
We have seen the volatility in markets in one of the description of the third quarter James left out in August, we saw
1,000 point drop in the Dow one day. That was not really constructive for our retail engagement numbers. So there's a
lot of volatility. There's been a softer calendar. And as you said, there's been a shift into some of these managed
accounts as well. So all of those are factors.
<Q - Michael R. Carrier>: Okay. That's helpful. And then just one follow-up on the Merchant Banking business and
not really on the Asia fund. When we look at that business and maybe the overall portfolio, I just want to get a sense on
like the mix of the assets that are in there. And then it sounds like on the Asia fund you didn't go under the high water
market or the hurdle. So it was just a negative environment, so you take the hit and you get the negative carry. But
going forward, if the investments are positive, there's nothing that we should be thinking about it differently, meaning if
it's positive, we'll see the positive carry return. But really, I want to understand like the mix of that business because
when we're in more volatile environments, we can see some quarters where some weird things happen. So any color
you can provide there.
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: Sure. So a couple things. In terms of – I think in the supplement we break out where the
assets under management are. We have a broad private equity and Merchant Banking and Real Estate Investment
business so you can see the different strategies and the different dollars of assets under management. In terms of your
comment about reversal of carry or then, I guess the restatement of carry going forward, there is – these funds are
structured like traditional private equity funds and there is a phase where you're accruing carry, where there's a catch up
phase that accelerates the accrual of carry when you go above the preferred return hurdle. You then – when the carry
reverses itself, you have the inverse of that. We saw that in the second half of 2013 where we had the just sort of
breaking through that preferred return hurdle, where we had the acceleration and this was the inverse of that. And
specifically to your last question, we are on Fund III. We are still above our preferred return, so there is still some carry
that has been accrued in that fund.
<Q - Michael R. Carrier>: Okay. All right, thanks a lot.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS. Please go ahead.
<Q - Brennan McHugh Hawken>: Thanks. Good morning. Jon, a quick follow-up on that question on Wealth
Management from Mike with the deferred comp. Can you give us what your margin would be if we backed out the
deferred comp noise in the Wealth Management business?
Company Name: Morgan Stanley
Company Ticker: MS US
Date: 2015-10-19
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 14
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: I don't have that number.
<Q - Brennan McHugh Hawken>: But it would probably be a little bit lower than what you reported, right, because it
is going to lower your comp by a similar amount as your revenue?
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: Well, it's clearly neutral to the bottom line, and this is a line item that sort of has been
running through quarter-to-quarter. So I don't know what the margin would be without it, but it's definitely neutral to
the bottom line.
<Q - Brennan McHugh Hawken>: Okay. But it is right, just in thinking about it, that it's going to move expenses by
the same amount that [ph] it was, right? (47:11)
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: Yes, it's neutral – yes. Neutral to the bottom line.
<Q - Brennan McHugh Hawken>: Yes. Got it. Got it. Okay. Thanks for that. And then tax rate has been kind of
volatile this year. I know it's tricky, but is there any way we should think about the full year here this year on taxes?
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: Yes. The tax rate has been volatile. We said in the past, it's a function of the geographic mix
of earnings. I think we steered you towards 32% last quarter for the full year, right? There is an adjustment period as
the geographic mix as it hits the actual mix of earnings based on legal entity, versus sort of – versus a managed
business, as well as sort of a look forward of what we think that mix is going to look like. So it is a volatile number, but
I would say 32% effective tax rate for the entire year is still what we would say, plus or minus.
<Q - Brennan McHugh Hawken>: Okay. Okay. Thank you. And then, last one on Wealth Management, you guys
saw deposits grow this quarter. Was there anything specific driving that? And then when we think about the
loan-to-deposit ratio, as you guys continue to show nice growth in the loan book, how should we frame loan growth
and where the loan book could get to, based on that?
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: So two questions, I think, on the bank deposit program. I did highlight that we saw an
increase in $7 billion, and that was really based on the volatility in the markets and we saw that investors either stayed
or moved into cash relative to those volatile markets. And, as I said, we would expect, over time, if that volatility abates
and their confidence returns, that that will be reinvested in the market.
In terms of the loan growth, we have seen good progress against our deposit deployment plan. We still have excess
liquidity to deploy. We see a healthy and diversified pipeline and we continue to expect to grow the loans in the bank.
It's primarily going to be driven by Wealth Management. It's going to be primarily driven by the mortgage product and
the SBL product. And, as I said, quarter-over-quarter, we were up $3 billion and year-over-year up $12 billion. So, we
still see a healthy pipeline. I would say the penetration rates in terms of FAs engaging with their clients on these
products are still high and we would expect the growth to continue.
<Q - Brennan McHugh Hawken>: Okay. And then thinking about Wealth Management and the potential new rule on
the Department of Labor's fiduciary proposal, how much of your Wealth Management client assets are in retirement
accounts and what percentage of those are advisory?
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: So, we don't break that out. And, obviously, the fiduciary duty standard has gotten a lot of
attention. And there's been a lot of industry dialogue around it. I think the comment period was extended and we saw
that there were over 300,000 comment letters on this proposal. We like to provide our clients with choice. We're hoping
that the final rules allow us to do that, and we'll wait for those final rules to come out.
<Q - Brennan McHugh Hawken>: Okay. But not anything that you can size for us?
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: Again, we'll wait for the final rules to come out and then we'll come back to you.
<Q - Brennan McHugh Hawken>: Okay. Last one, just on FIC. And sorry to sort of beat this a little bit here, but it
has – sort of has been alluded to, equities and Wealth Management seems to have gone well and this is the one business
that has continued to draw attention. And, James, I think there's a quote in the press release for you about addressing
areas of underperformance. But that seems clearly tied to FIC, is that the right inference? And then does the timing of
Company Name: Morgan Stanley
Company Ticker: MS US
Date: 2015-10-19
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 14
Ted getting in charge of the FIC business now to tie into this weak quarter and does it also circle back to previous
comments that you all have made as being 2015 a really important year for FIC to prove that they can generate good
enough results?
<A - James Patrick Gorman>: A lot of questions in there, Brennan. I think we probably said all we want to say about
FIC. It was one quarter. It was a disappointing quarter. The timing of the organization announcement was not related to
this quarter. The timing of the organization announcement is related to our desire to bring ourselves and trading
businesses together, make them as efficient, as effective as we can. We're all working very hard on that. Ted, Colin,
myself, Michael Heaney and Rob Rooney in fixed income and all of their team. Listen, I think we have said what we
want to say about this quarter. It is what it is and we move forward. We're not here asleep at the wheel.
<Q - Brennan McHugh Hawken>: Fair enough. Thank you very much.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Devin Ryan with JMP Securities. Please go ahead.
<Q - Devin P. Ryan>: Hey, thanks. Good morning. We talk quite a bit about margin targets in GWM. But looking at
ISG, it seems to be some pretty big margin tailwinds just from the bank growth and optimization there and then lower
funding cost. So just taking a step back from the challenges of this quarter, how should we think about incremental
margin potential in ISG, particularly as you benefit from some of these revenue tailwinds? And just trying to think
through how much of that benefit will flow to the bottom line versus being reinvested back into other parts of ISG?
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: So, on the ISG side, we're clearly focused on expenses and trying to be disciplined there. As
I mentioned, the comp ratio at 38% is below our stated target from the beginning of the year. On the non-comp side, we
obviously have the increase in the litigation reserve this quarter. We've also highlighted for you last quarter, called out
some professional fees related to the regulatory agenda. You know, our hope is that today, when we look back, that
we're sort of – we have accomplished more of the regulatory agenda behind us than we have in front of us, but we still
have a large regulatory agenda and trying to figure out when those costs abate is really challenging. We are very
focused on expenses. We're trying to control those expenses that we can control and we will continue to do that going
forward.
<Q - Devin P. Ryan>: Okay. And then just within ISG, additionally, lending exposure to energy, can you quantify
that? And then any other counterparty exposures related to energy would be helpful.
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: In terms of energy exposure, we do have an institutional lending business which includes
exposure to energy. I would say that our energy exposure quarter-to-quarter hasn't changed materially. Most of the
energy lending is to large multinational corporations and about two-thirds of that lending exposure is through
investment grade counterparties. E&P, which has been a big focus of the market, that exposure for us is a much smaller
portion of our overall exposure and approximately half of that – of our E&P exposure is secured by reserves. Like
others, we have seen some deterioration in credit in that portfolio, but we haven't taken any significant losses there. As
with all of our exposures, we are managing them very tightly. And when appropriate, we're also hedging those
exposures. I would say given that environment, we would expect continued pressure in this area but we are focused on
it and we are managing it tightly.
<Q - Devin P. Ryan>: Okay. Great. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Fiona Swaffield with RBC. Please go ahead.
<Q - Fiona M. Swaffield>: Hi, good morning. I have two questions. One was on the Wealth Management net interest
income, where in the previous couple of quarters, certainly Q2, you mentioned the realization of the forward curve in
Company Name: Morgan Stanley
Company Ticker: MS US
Date: 2015-10-19
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 14
your investment securities portfolio as being a factor. I don't know if you can talk us through Q3, Q2, in that respect,
within the Wealth Management net interest income. And the second area was on the supplementary leverage exposure,
well the SLR, and the total exposure number. It seems to have gone down. I mean, is there some add – have you been
successful on reducing add-ons or I think in the past you talked about securities financing. I just wonder if you could
talk a bit about that strategy. Thank you.
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: I'll take the second one first. In terms of the SLR, that's an average calculation, and as I said,
we saw average assets decline over the quarter. And we continue to make progress on the balance sheet add on. So I
would say it's a combination of a reduction in average assets as well as some good work around compression and other
things on the add-ons. The first question around the forward curve, I think what we've said historically is that the
growth in NII is primarily driven off of our deposit deployment strategy and taking our excess liquidity out of available
for sale securities and putting them into the loan product. That will be the primary driver going forward. Clearly, the
forward curve is helpful, as we reinvest our available for sale securities portfolio. I think since we talked last time, I
think we're probably in an environment lower and longer. So that will have an impact, but, again, our NII growth has
been primarily driven by the loan growth.
<Q - Fiona M. Swaffield>: Could I just follow up. So if I looked to Q3, Q2, there wouldn't have been a negative from
AFS or anything like that, it just may have been less positive than in the past couple of quarters.
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: That's probably a reasonable characterization.
<Q - Fiona M. Swaffield>: Okay. Thanks very much.
Operator
Your final question comes from the line of the Christian Bolu with Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
<Q - Christian Bolu>: Good morning, Jon. Good morning, James.
<A - James Patrick Gorman>: Good morning.
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: Good morning.
<Q - Christian Bolu>: Jon, on the relationship lending losses, can you give more color on what drove that. Was it
mostly energy related or more broad based? And then just any comments you have, how you feel in terms of your
credit metrics [indiscernible] (58:12) and then book would be helpful also.
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: As I did highlight, we did have markdowns on our held for sale relationship and event loans
as a result of the market environment. I wouldn't call out any individual or specific sector or event; however, I would
also highlight that the bottom line impact was minimal, as we hedge many of our fair value loans as appropriate.
<Q - Christian Bolu>: Okay. Thanks. That's helpful. And then just on Wealth Management, a quick question, FA
count ticked up this quarter. Curious if that's just trainees or are you starting to see a better environment for advisory
recruitment?
<A - Jonathan Pruzan>: I would say it's a little bit of lower attrition and a little bit on the trainee side.
<Q - Christian Bolu>: Okay. Thank you.
Kathleen McCabe
Okay. And with that, I'll bring the call to a close. I thank you all for dialing in. And we look forward to speaking to you
again in 13 weeks.
Company Name: Morgan Stanley
Company Ticker: MS US
Date: 2015-10-19
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 14
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.