Company Name: American Express
Company Ticker: AXP US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 16
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Sherwood S. Willard, Jr.
• Jeffrey C. Campbell
Other Participants
• Craig Jared Maurer
• Donald Fandetti
• Robert P. Napoli
• William Carcache
• Sanjay Sakhrani
• Richard B. Shane
• David Hochstim
• Christopher Brendler
• Cheryl M. Pate
• Mark C. DeVries
• David Mark Togut
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the American Express third quarter 2015 earnings
call. [Operator Instructions] And as a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Toby Willard. Please go ahead.
Sherwood S. Willard, Jr.
Welcome, we appreciate all of you joining us for today's call.
The discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company's future financial performance
and business prospects, which are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and
uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set
forth within today's earnings press release and earnings supplement, which were filed in an 8-K report, and in the
company's other reports already on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The discussion today also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Information relating to comparable GAAP
financial measures may be found in the third quarter 2015 earnings release, earnings supplement and presentation
slides, as well as the earnings materials from prior periods that may be discussed, all of which are posted on our
website at ir.americanexpress.com. We encourage you to review that information in conjunction with today's
discussion.
Today's discussion will begin with Jeff Campbell, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, who will
review some key points related to the quarter's earnings through the series of slides included with the earnings
Company Name: American Express
Company Ticker: AXP US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 16
documents distributed. Once Jeff completes his remarks, we will move to a Q&A session.
With that, let me turn the discussion over to Jeff.
Jeffrey C. Campbell
Thanks, Toby, and good afternoon, everyone.
Overall, our third quarter performance was in line with our 2015 financial outlook and reflected the headwinds that
we've been managing throughout 2015, including a challenging economic, competitive, and regulatory environment.
Consistent with the expectations that we discussed publicly in mid-September, reported Q3 EPS of $1.24 was down
11% versus the prior year. And on an FX-adjusted basis, we did see a modest slowing sequentially in the billings
growth rate from 6% to 5%, and saw adjusted revenue growth slow from 5% in Q2 to 3% in Q3.
As in the first two quarters of 2015, our third quarter results continued to reflect the discrete impacts from various
changes to certain of our co-brand partnerships and a significantly stronger U.S. dollar versus last year, both of which
I'll quantify later in my remarks.
The decline in earnings versus the prior year was also in part driven by increased spending on growth initiatives. I'd
remind you that as we considered earlier this year the implications of the pending termination in 2016 of our
relationship with Costco in the U.S., we made the decision to increase spending in 2015 across a range of business
opportunities to best position the company for long-term growth.
While our reported results reflect these discrete impacts, our core performance continued to reflect healthy loan growth,
strong Card Member and merchant acquisitions, write-off rates at historically low levels, disciplined operating expense
control, and the benefits of our strong capital position. Through all of this, we continued to drive an ROE above our
on-average and over-time target of 25%, demonstrating the continued strength of our business model.
As we turn to the slides, we are once again beginning our presentation with the financial outlook framework that we
first shared at Investor Day in March, as we believe it remains a useful framework for discussing the drivers of our
current performance. I'll provide more details on the specific drivers as we review our reported results. But overall, we
believe we are doing the right things to achieve our multiyear outlook and position the company for the long term.
Thinking ahead to Q4, we expect results to reflect some of the same headwinds as the current quarter, including
incremental spending on growth initiatives as well as the discrete impacts from changes in our co-brand relationships
and a stronger U.S. dollar. I'd also remind you that in Q4 2014 we had a net benefit related to the sale of our investment
in Concur.
Throughout this year, we have said that our full-year 2015 outlook was for EPS to be flat to modestly down versus the
prior year. To be more specific, as we sit here today with one quarter left in the year, we estimate that full-year 2015
EPS will be between $5.20 and $5.35. We believe our outlook to return to positive earnings per share growth in 2016
and within our target range of 12% to 15% in 2017 remains appropriate. As you recall, our outlook for 2015 to 2017
does not contemplate the impact of any restructuring charges or other contingencies.
Now to turn to a review of our financial results on slide three, billings were flat versus the prior year on a reported
basis. Adjusted for FX, billings growth was 5% during Q3, reflecting slower volume growth across our U.S. consumer
and corporate portfolios. I'll provide more details on our billed business performance shortly.
Reported revenues were down 1% but were up 3% after adjusting for FX. This is slower than the adjusted Q2 revenue
growth rate, in part due to the modestly slower billings growth and the merchant rebate accrual benefit that impacted
discount revenue last quarter. Net income was down 14% year over year, primarily reflecting an increase in spending
on growth initiatives and the discrete impacts from changes to our co-brand relationships and the stronger U.S. dollar.
We estimate that the changes in our co-brand relationships reduced EPS by approximately 5% during the quarter, and
that the negative impact from FX further reduced EPS by another approximately 4% to 5%.
Company Name: American Express
Company Ticker: AXP US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 16
Below the net income line, we continued to leverage our strong capital position to provide significant returns to
shareholders and have repurchased 56 million shares over the past 12 months, which has reduced our average share
count by 5%. As a result, EPS was down 11% versus the prior year despite the 14% drop in net income and a $0.02
EPS impact related to our preferred dividend payment. As we have said previously, we expect that our quarterly
earnings performance will be more uneven during this transitional period, and certainly you saw that in our results this
quarter. Our focus continues to be on the earnings outlook for each year and the long term as opposed to the
performance in any given quarter.
Turning to our billings performance by region on slide four, on an FX-adjusted basis, billings growth was 5% during
the quarter versus 6% in Q2, driven by a sequential decline in U.S. volume growth. I'll provide more context on the
U.S. results in a few minutes, so let me begin with a review of the international billings trends.
While we continue to face an evolving regulatory landscape going forward, we have seen very solid performance trends
across our international regions over the last several quarters. JPA remained our fastest growth region, with volumes up
14% on an FX-adjusted basis. The strong performance was again powered by Japan and China. While performance in
China remains robust, year-over-year growth was lower than in Q2, which drove a deceleration in regional volume
growth and also in the GNS segment, as you will see on the next slide. As a reminder, while China does impact our
billings growth rates, it has a very small impact on our revenue and earnings due to the low margin that all networks
earn on spending within China today.
Moving to the EMEA region, volume growth remained consistent at 9% on an FX-adjusted basis, including
double-digit growth in the UK. The year-over-year decline in LACC volumes is being driven by Canada, which is
being impacted by the end of our relationship with Costco in Canada. This will continue to impact our volume growth
until Q1 2016, although it will begin to lessen next quarter as Costco began accepting other network products in its
Canadian warehouses during Q4 2014. Outside of Canada, LACC regional growth remains in the double digits,
including strong performance in Mexico and Argentina during Q3.
Overall, international performance excluding Canada continued to be strong, with volumes up 11% on an FX-adjusted
basis versus the prior year during Q3. We are pleased with our progress outside the U.S., which reflects strong
performance in the consumer and network businesses, where we've seen encouraging returns on our recent growth
initiatives. As the largest global issuer, we constantly balance global strategies and local execution, seeking to leverage
our best practices, capabilities, and learnings in all the markets in which we compete.
Looking at the results by segment now on slide five, we saw slower growth in GCS, where billings were up 1% on an
FX-adjusted basis, and in our USCS segment, where volume growth slowed to 5% versus 6% last quarter. As I
mentioned in my initial comments, billings growth, particularly in the U.S., continues to be impacted by a number of
headwinds during 2015.
To provide a bit of color on this, on average we are seeing lower average transaction sizes in the U.S. as opposed to
Card Members using their American Express cards less frequently. In total, U.S. transactions increased 7% versus the
prior year, but the average transaction size was down 3%. We are clearly seeing this impact on gas spending, where for
the industry, average gas prices are down 25% versus the prior year.
Lower average transaction sizes are also a driver within airline spending, which constitutes 7% of our total volumes in
the U.S. and is down 3% year over year. This decrease is consistent with the recent trends in average ticket prices and
revenue performance across the U.S. airline industry. The slower airline spend had a larger relative impact within GCS,
where airlines make up approximately 25% of total spend.
Also in GCS, we saw a slowdown in growth across middle market customers in the U.S. Despite this near-term
performance, we do see opportunities to accelerate growth in this segment, as we continue to focus and leverage our
efforts to bring together some of the unique products and services we can offer to middle market customers.
Last, moving back to the USCS segment, consistent with the prior quarter, we saw volumes on the Costco co-brand
products soften, although the loan portfolio on Costco remained approximately 20% of worldwide loans as of the end
of Q3. More broadly on Costco, we have not seen a significant earnings impact from Costco in the U.S., as lower
Company Name: American Express
Company Ticker: AXP US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 16
volume growth to date has been offset by reduced marketing expenses associated with the co-brand portfolio.
One other Costco point, we do realize that all of you remain extremely interested in the status of our Costco co-brand
portfolio sale discussions with Citi. The reality is this is a very complex transaction, and I don't think it would be
appropriate to comment on the specifics during the discussions. We will provide more detail on the outcome and its
implications for our 2016 EPS outlook as soon as the discussions are complete.
Moving on now to loan growth on slide six, you can see that worldwide loans increased by 4% versus last year. In the
U.S., which constitutes the majority of our loans, growth was steady at 7% during Q3 and continues to outpace the
industry. International loan balances remain down year over year due to FX and the end of our Costco relationship in
Canada. Excluding the negative impact of FX and Canadian loan balances, however, international loan growth
improved to 9% during Q3.
So we are pleased with the underlying trends of loan growth. We continue to believe that there are opportunities to
increase our share of lending for both existing and new customers globally without significantly changing the overall
risk profile of the company.
Like other U.S. companies with a significant global footprint, our reported results are being significantly impacted by
changes in foreign exchange rates. Over the past year, the dollar has strengthened significantly year over year against
the currencies that we are most exposed to outside the U.S., as you can see at the bottom of slide seven. The dollar's
strength will have an impact on our performance for the balance of the year and could impact 2016 as well.
Looking at the comparison of our reported and FX-adjusted revenue growth rates, you can see the difference between
our reported revenue growth and our FX-adjusted revenue growth remained relatively consistent, as FX dragged our
reported revenue growth by approximately 400 basis points in both Q2 and Q3.
When rates move this dramatically, there is also a bottom line impact. And as I mentioned earlier, we estimate that the
strengthening of the dollar reduced our EPS by approximately 4% to 5% during the quarter. Over the longer term, we
continue to believe that being a global company that generates revenue in a diverse set of markets around the world is a
strength of our business model.
So let's move now to our revenue performance on slide eight, where you see that our reported revenues were down 1%
versus the prior year but increased 3% on an FX-adjusted basis. As I just discussed, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar
had a significant impact on a number of revenue lines, including discount revenue, net card fees, and other
commissions, which all increased year over year after adjusting for FX. Other revenue also grew versus Q3 2014 after
adjusting for FX and the gains from the sales of ICBC and Concur shares in the prior year.
FX-adjusted revenue growth of 3% did slow sequentially versus the prior quarter. This was in part due to the modest
slowing in billed business growth that I discussed. I'd also remind you that our second quarter results included a benefit
in discount revenue related to certain merchant rebate accruals, which resulted in a year-over-year increase in the
discount rate during Q2.
The two basis point year-over-year decline in the discount rate this quarter was in part driven by the growth of the
OptBlue program as well as the continued downward pressure that we traditionally have from changes in mix and
competition. These impacts were partially offset by the decline in Costco Canada merchant volume, where we earned a
much lower than average discount rate.
We continue to make steady progress with the OptBlue program. With the recent addition of Chase Paymentech, all of
the top ten U.S. merchant acquirers have now signed up to join the OptBlue program. We are signing a significant
number of new merchants through the program and are focused on driving greater awareness and Card Member
spending at these new AmEx accepting locations over time.
Continuing with merchant related items in the U.S., it's now been approximately three months since the DOJ's remedy
took effect. While the remedy has not yet had an impact on our business, it is still too early to tell what the longer-term
impact in the marketplace will be.
Company Name: American Express
Company Ticker: AXP US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 16
Before moving on from slide eight, I would say we are pleased with the strong growth of 8% in net interest income,
driven by our continued progress in growing the loan portfolio and lower funding costs.
Turning to credit performance on slide nine, we are pleased that our lending credit metrics remain at low levels, with
our write-off rate declining slightly versus last quarter and our delinquency rates remaining flat.
Moving to slide 10, our credit performance during the quarter combined with higher loan balances to drive an 8%
year-over-year increase in provision, which included a $53 million reserve build. While credit metrics have been
steadily improving since the downturn, they have generally stabilized at the current levels over the course of the past
year. Therefore, reserve releases from improved credit performance are no longer offsetting the additional reserves
needed for higher loan balances. This performance is in line with our expectations that the provision would increase
year over year and in part reflects the steady growth that we are seeing in the loan portfolio.
Going forward, we do continue to anticipate that write-off rates will gradually increase from today's low levels, in part
due to the seasoning of our newer loan vintages. This is consistent with our comments from Investor Day about
expecting to see some steady upward tick in runoff rates and a modest build in reserves over the outlook period.
Moving to expense performance on slide 11, our total expenses increased by 3% during the current quarter.
Performance differed significantly across P&L lines, and all expenses benefited from the year-over-year change in FX
rates. On an FX-adjusted basis, total expenses increased by 7% during the quarter. I'll walk you through the details of
marketing and promotion and operating expenses in a few minutes, but let me first touch on a few other items on this
slide.
Rewards expense increased 4% versus the prior year, a bit above the growth in proprietary billings, which excludes
GNS. Performance this quarter includes a portion of the discrete impact from our renewed co-brand relationships. Our
renewed co-brand relationships continued to have a more significant impact on the cost of Card Member services,
which was up 31% versus the prior year.
As I mentioned earlier, we estimate that all of the changes in our co-brand relationships reduced EPS by approximately
5% this quarter. This estimate includes the impact of our renewed co-brand relationships with Delta, Starwood, Cathay
Pacific, British Airways, and Iberia, as well as the net impact on our Canadian business from the end of our Costco
relationship. The co-brand impact is primarily concentrated in cost of Card Member services and rewards expenses,
although there is an impact on the revenue growth as well.
Let's now turn to marketing and promotion on slide 12. Marketing and promotion expenses were $847 million in the
quarter and were up significantly from Q2 due to the higher spending on growth initiatives we did this quarter. On a
year-over-year basis, marketing and promotion was 8% higher than the prior year, but was up 14% after adjusting for
FX. The increase in M&P this quarter is consistent with our expectations, as we have been clear since the Costco
decision earlier this year that we intend for the spending on growth initiatives during full-year 2015 to be at or slightly
higher than the elevated levels of full-year 2014. We have also highlighted that the increase would be more
concentrated in the third and fourth quarters.
To provide some additional perspective about our growth initiative spending, we included the breakdown on slide 13
that we have previously shared in mid-September. We continue to feel that this slide is a helpful way to think about
what we broadly consider to be our spending on growth initiatives within the company. As you can see, while a large
portion of this spending occurs within marketing and promotion, a significant amount also occurs within operating
expenses. And some of the impact also shows up as contra-revenue.
I'd like to make a few comments related specifically to the increased spending during the third quarter. A large portion
of the increase in marketing and promotion during Q3 was focused on our efforts to attract new Card Members across
our consumer, small business, and corporate franchises around the globe.
For example, in our U.S. consumer business, we ramped up acquisition efforts for our cash rebate products as well as
our Gold charge card and Starwood Preferred Guest credit card, both of which were recently refreshed with several
new Card Member benefits. We also increased our spending on longer-term technology initiatives, including efforts to
Company Name: American Express
Company Ticker: AXP US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 16
enhance the digital capabilities that we provide to middle market corporations and small businesses.
The higher spending during Q3 also helped drive progress across a number of business initiatives, including adding
Sam's to our Merchant Acceptance network, rolling out Apple Pay to our corporate card and UK Card Members, as
well as the continued expansion of the Plenti loyalty coalition program.
So as I just mentioned, the efforts to attract new Card Members are one of the key focus areas for our incremental
growth initiative spending. In this context, we are pleased to see that these efforts drove a significant increase in new
cards acquired across our U.S. consumer, small business, and corporate issuing businesses during the current quarter, as
you can see on slide 14. Now obviously, it will take time for the benefits from these new acquisitions to impact our
results, which is why our focus has consistently been on our performance over the multiyear outlook period.
Moving to operating expenses on slide 15, operating expenses were down 1% year over year and increased 3% on an
FX-adjusted basis. As I mentioned, operating expense performance this quarter reflected an increased level of spending
on growth initiatives, including a number of technology initiatives. As a portion of the spending on these technology
initiatives hits the professional services and occupancy and equipment lines, I wanted to provide a bit more detail on
just what is included within these expense categories.
Starting with professional services, I would point out that the majority of expenses on this line are related to the
technology costs that we pay third parties. This P&L line also includes the fees we pay third parties for credit and
collection activities as well as some of the incentives we pay merchant acquirers.
Similarly, moving to occupancy and equipment, over 75% of the costs on this line on a year-to-date basis are related to
data processing, including the license fees we pay technology providers and depreciation costs associated with our
technology hardware and software. The remainder consist primarily of depreciation expense on office equipment and
buildings and the rent we pay for office space around the world.
Similar to our performance across other operating expense lines, we have gained efficiency in our professional services
and occupancy and equipment expenses over time as we have rationalized our technology infrastructure and location
footprint around the world. We believe there is a sustained opportunity to deliver operating leverage going forward, as
technology continues to become cheaper and more powerful each year and our customers and merchants increasingly
demonstrate a preference to engage with us through more digital channels.
Before moving on, let me touch specifically on the 21% increase in occupancy and equipment expense this quarter. The
increase was driven by a $91 million impairment charge related to previously capitalized software development costs,
primarily within enterprise growth, including the decision not to continue with certain investments within the group.
We continuously evaluate our investments across the company to ensure that we are deploying the right level of
resources against our most attractive opportunities.
In this context, we decided to pull back on certain initiatives in enterprise growth during the current quarter, including
the decision to not proceed with the launch of our Serve product in Mexico. These decisions are aligned with some
recent organizational changes with enterprise growth, including consolidating the Serve platform and related
capabilities under Steve Squeri.
More broadly, we continually to look at ways to make our overall organization more effective, streamlining the
processes that cut across multiple parts of the company, and focusing the organization on our most attractive growth
opportunities in both the consumer and business-to-business space. As we set priorities for 2016 and beyond, we will
focus on those opportunities that can produce the best returns. And we will be ensuring that we have the proper
operating structure to deliver results in the most efficient and effective way.
To conclude now on operating expenses and moving to slide 16, despite the greater spending on technology initiatives
in the quarter, adjusted operating expenses are down 3% on a year-to-date basis and up 1% on an FX-adjusted basis,
both well below our 3% target for 2015.
Now shifting to our capital performance on slide 17, during the quarter we returned well over 100% of the capital we
generated to shareholders while maintaining our strong capital ratios. Our Q3 performance again demonstrates our
Company Name: American Express
Company Ticker: AXP US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 16
confidence in the company's ability to generate capital while maintaining its financial strength, and also demonstrates
our ongoing commitment to using that capital strength to create value for our shareholders.
So let me now conclude by stepping away from some of the complexity I just took you through and going back to the
key themes in our results. Overall, our Q3 performance reflected the headwinds and challenges that we've been
managing throughout 2015. As expected, earnings were down year over year due to the ramp up in spending on growth
initiatives and the discrete impacts from changes in our co-brand relationships and a stronger U.S. dollar. In addition,
billings and revenue growth continue to be impacted by the challenging economic, competitive, and regulatory
environment.
Against this backdrop, we continued to move ahead with initiatives to build our business for the years ahead. We're
investing substantially more in marketing incentives and technology to attract new Card Members and additional
spending to our network. We're expanding card acceptance at an accelerated pace among small merchants and added
Sam's Club, the eighth largest retailer in the U.S., to our network earlier this month. We're broadening our relationships
with Card Members to accommodate more of their borrowing needs, and our loan portfolio continued steady growth
this quarter. The flexibility to invest in these and other growth initiatives comes in part from our ongoing progress in
containing operating expenses throughout the company.
We also continue to benefit from a strong balance sheet that allows us to return a substantial portion of our earnings to
shareholders through share repurchases and dividends. We remain committed to these actions and believe that these are
the right things to do to achieve our multiyear outlook and position the company for the long term.
With that, I'll turn the call back over to Toby for some details on our Q&A session.
Sherwood S. Willard, Jr.
Thanks, Jeff.
As a reminder, our ongoing goal is to provide a greater opportunity for more analysts to ask a question during the
session. Therefore, before we open up the line for Q&A, I'll ask those in the queue to please limit yourself to just one
question. Thank you for your cooperation in this process.
With that, the operator will now open up the line for questions.
Q&A
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Craig Maurer of Autonomous. Please go ahead.
<Q - Craig Jared Maurer>: Hi. Thanks, two questions. First, could you talk about the magnitude to which cash-back
rewards acting as a contra-revenue item are impacting the end merchant discount rate?
And secondly, you called out loyalty partner in your press release as adding to revenue growth in a meaningful way.
Can you contrast that to Plenti and how we should think about growth in Plenti long term? Thanks.
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: Sure. Let me start, Craig, with the cash-back question. Certainly in the U.S. consumer
business in particular, we have been seeing very nice growth in our cash-back products. And as you know, the
accounting for our cash-back products does push – does make the cash-back a contra-revenue.
So when you look at the discount rate that we report, what we try to do is reflect the actual economics that we're getting
at the point of sale at the merchants, and so we try to – we take that out of that calculation. When you do the straight
calculation off the income statement of just discount revenue over billed business, you aren't capturing the higher
growth rates of the cash-back products. All that said, I would say that in the grand scheme of the company overall, the
Company Name: American Express
Company Ticker: AXP US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 16
cash-back products still are a relatively modest part of the overall portfolio, which is why we don't specifically call out
the impact it has on the revenue growth rate.
In terms of loyalty partner, what I would say is, to remind everyone, we have a business that is more mature in a variety
of other countries around the globe like Germany, Poland, India. It's a little bit newer in Mexico and in Italy. And we're
really pleased with the way the business has developed in all of those countries as it has gotten to profitability.
When you go to the U.S., we're really pleased and excited about the launch of Plenti earlier this year. It's very, very
early days in the U.S. And so we're very encouraged by the growth that we've seen and the number of members that
Plenti has been able to attract. I think you've heard several of the other partners in Plenti talk about their view of the
progress, and it's all very positive. What I would say on the U.S. is it's still early days, and we will need to see how it
progresses over the next year or two before it begins to have a more material impact on the company's financial results.
<Q - Craig Jared Maurer>: Thank you.
Operator
Okay, thank you. And the next question comes from the line of Dan (sic) [Don] (34:30) Fandetti of Citigroup. Please
go ahead.
<Q - Donald Fandetti>: Hi, Jeff. I just wanted to ask on your GNS business and I guess also on U.S. in general. Do
you think you're holding your market share in GNS? You clearly laid out some issues around the pressure from airline
pricing, and maybe China was off a little bit. But if you strip that out, that's always been a very strong area for you. Can
you talk a little bit about that?
And then on the U.S. side, or I should say more on the corporate side, do you think you have a structural issue there, or
are you just weak because of general economics and some of the issues you highlighted last quarter around airlines?
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: So a couple of good questions there, Dan. I may parse it into pieces talking a little bit
about GNS, a little bit about the U.S. and share, and then maybe a little bit about corporate. So I'll hit each of those
briefly.
If you look at GNS, just to remind everyone, our GNS business generates about 85% or so of its billings outside the
U.S. and about 15% come from in the U.S., and so you really have a broad range of market conditions. You have
markets like the U.S., Australia, the UK, where we run a network business side by side with our proprietary business.
And then you have a lot of markets around the globe, China being a good example, where through a partner in effect
the GNS business is how we operate American Express through a franchise model.
So across that many different markets, I think it's a little challenging to generalize by share. But I would make the
general point that we're really pleased with the growth of each we're seeing in GNS everywhere in the world. And share
is something that we probably think about differently in each market depending on whether it's a pure GNS market or a
combined proprietary and GNS market. But I would say we feel very good about our share trends on a combined basis
outside the U.S. And when you take out the one challenge we have in Canada, I think when you look at our overall
international growth rates, we'll match up very well in the most recent quarter with the broader set of competitors that
we compete with.
To turn to the U.S., you talked about U.S. share. We probably have lost a little bit of share in the U.S. in recent
quarters. But I'd make a broader point that over the last five years we've actually gained quite a bit of share in the U.S.,
and we think about our prospects over the longer term. We also are focused at the end of the day on our share of
industry profits and industry revenues. We actually think we've done pretty well, including in recent quarters, on that
front. We're very thoughtful about what opportunities are going to produce the best returns for our shareholders, and
sometimes that does not always lead you to the same answer and what might produce our largest billings share.
To the last part of your question, you go to corporate in particular in the U.S., as I said in my remarks, the slowdown in
airline spend, as an old airline CFO, is remarkable when you look at both the large profits the airlines are generating
Company Name: American Express
Company Ticker: AXP US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 16
right now given the drop in fuel prices, but also the pretty tough revenue environment they're in with industry revenues
and industry unit revenues in the U.S. down. That's just reflected in our numbers, where we don't think we're losing
share when we look at numbers of transactions, but the average transaction size is just trending right along with the
airline industry spend. That does particularly impact our corporate business since airlines are about 25% of that
business. And we have seen a little bit of slowdown in the middle market part of our corporate business, as I mentioned
in my remarks.
But I would tell you over the medium to long term, we continue to see this area of the middle market section of
business in the U.S. as a real growth opportunity for us. That's why we made some of the organizational changes we
made earlier this year, putting together our corporate card business and our OPEN franchise under the leadership of
Steve Squeri because that's why I talked a little bit about some of the technology initiative spending we're doing to
strengthen and refine some of our products targeted at that segment. So we haven't lost any of our enthusiasm for the
growth opportunities in that segment in the medium to long term, but you have seen a number of factors that slowed us
down this quarter.
<Q - Donald Fandetti>: Thank you.
Operator
Okay, thank you. And next question comes from the line of Bob Napoli of William Blair. Please go ahead.
<Q - Robert P. Napoli>: Thank you, good afternoon. You added a lot of new cards this quarter, a substantial increase,
more than what we expected. Now what is the cost of adding those cards? Has the cost per account gone up? And if
not, why not accelerate marketing? Obviously, that would be the best way to grow through Costco in 2017 is to
continue to add a substantial number of accounts. So maybe just talk about the quality of the accounts, the cost per
account, and whether or not the amount of cards we saw this quarter is sustainable. Thank you.
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: All good questions. We feel really good and are really pleased to see the growth in new
accounts. What I would point out is we see growth opportunities across lots of the pieces of our portfolio. And the
reason you've heard us talk about since earlier this year, staying an elevated level of growth-oriented spending in 2015
is because we want to do exactly what you just suggested, which is as we think about the termination of the Costco
U.S. contract sometime in 2016, we think we have a lot of growth opportunities. We think in a significant fixed cost
business, it makes a lot of sense to seize as many of the growth opportunities as we can now to position ourselves for
that Costco change in 2016.
When you think about what we're acquiring, we feel really good about the average quality of the accounts that we're
acquiring. And in terms of cost of acquiring those accounts, when we look at historical trends, we also feel really good
that we are spending more absolute dollars. That's what the elevated level of growth spending is all about. And it's
being reflected in a much higher level of new cards acquired, and the average cost is pretty similar to what we've
historically experienced.
So I suppose the other part of your question is why don't you do even more. We're always balancing our financial,
managerial, and marketing resources and trying to make tradeoffs that we think are optimal for our shareholders. So we
believe we're going as aggressively as we can and should be given the range of opportunities. And I would just say
we're encouraged by the progress we saw this last quarter.
<Q - Robert P. Napoli>: Thank you.
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: You're welcome, Bob.
Operator
Okay, thank you, and next question from the line of Bill Carcache of Nomura. Please go ahead.
Company Name: American Express
Company Ticker: AXP US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 16
<Q - William Carcache>: Thank you. Hi, Jeff.
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: Hi, Bill.
<Q - William Carcache>: I wanted to ask a question I've gotten from several investors who are wondering whether the
quarter's results suggest that you guys are facing a little bit more pressure than you expected earlier in the year. I know
you said that the results were in line with your expectations, but I think the reason people are asking is because the
2015 target EPS growth range of $5.20 to $5.35 that you provided implies in the area of I think like 3.5% to 6.5% –
negative 6.5% growth. And I think people were viewing that as worse than the flat to slightly negative growth range
that you've given previously. And so I was hoping that maybe you could just speak to that.
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: It's a good question, Bill. I think as we look at 2015 on the earnings side, the reality is it
will come in very much in the range that we originally envisioned if you go back to February when we first provided an
outlook. And I suppose it goes a little bit to how you want to define 'modestly down'. The reason we gave a range if
you go back to the beginning of 2015 is we wanted to make sure in the current environment we're giving ourselves the
flexibility to do the right things for the company for the long term.
If you think about the question that Bob just asked, we are pleased by what we saw in the outcome or some of the fruits
of the higher levels of spending we did in Q3. And that does suggest to us that we should continue to pursue many of
those growth opportunities and stay at a pretty elevated level of spending to do it. And that does drive us probably more
towards the modestly down part of our original guidance than the flat part of our guidance.
I don't want to downplay the fact that, as you've seen the last couple years, it's also a tough economic environment. If
you go back to January and February as we were putting our plans into place and you look at all the economic
forecasts, and we just base our own plans on the consensus economic forecasts, we don't try to say we can forecast
better than anybody else. The actuals have all come in below what the consensus was earlier this year, and we're used
to that.
Part of the flexibility in our business model is we've got a lot of levers to pull to make sure we can react to that, but that
has been a challenging thing for us. Gas prices staying down has been challenging, foreign exchange getting a little
worse. When we first provided an outlook for 2015, the U.S. dollar on a weighted average basis versus the range of
currencies that matter to us was probably down around 10%. It's gone down close to another 10% since then.
So all those things are factors. What we're trying to focus on are the core underlying things that will really determine
the run rate of the company as we get past a range of the challenges facing us in the near term here, and we feel pretty
good about those trends.
<Q - William Carcache>: I appreciate that. Thank you for taking my question, Jeff.
Operator
Okay, thank you, and the next question from the line of Sanjay Sakhrani of KBW. Please go ahead.
<Q - Sanjay Sakhrani>: Thank you. Maybe to follow up on that last question, I guess then as we look forward and
you guys talk about returning to growth, how do you define returning to growth, and what gives you the confidence that
you can achieve this? And I guess how does the Costco portfolio sale affect it? I know you can't really speak to
Costco's portfolio sale, but how did that sale factor into the return to growth?
And just one final one, how much of the run rate of cost savings from the workforce reduction is actually in this year's
number? Thank you.
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: Finishing right note, Sanjay, those are a lot of questions. I want to make sure I get them
all.
<Q - Sanjay Sakhrani>: Sorry.
Company Name: American Express
Company Ticker: AXP US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 16
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: No, all really good questions, all really good questions. How do we define growth? I
guess what I would tell you is that our view of absolute levels of what we believe we can achieve in 2016 has not
changed at all since February. So nothing that we have seen that I just talked about in response to Bill's question are
things that we don't think are manageable within all of the levers we have to pull thinking about 2016.
Second, when you think about Costco, I'd remind you that when we first back on February 12 provided our three-year
financial outlook, we said we're confident that we can achieve the 2016 outlook we then provided, which was a return
to positive growth regardless of what happens with the Costco portfolio. So we still don't know what the outcome is
going to be around the portfolio. When we do, we will talk about it publicly quickly. And when we do, that will allow
us, Sanjay, to be more precise because there's quite a range of outcomes around the portfolio. And until we know those,
it's tough to give you a number.
But what I want to come back to is the point I'm trying to make is that the underlying performance [inaudible] (48:08 –
48:13) comes back to a positive earnings performance in 2015. Sorry, we just lost our lights here and we're in the dark.
If you think about what the drivers are next year, just think about our financial framework. So the co-brand headwinds
that we've had all of 2015, 5% was the headwind this quarter, drop away as you get into 2016. FX particularly this
quarter is a big headwind. Now I suppose the dollar could move another 10% or 20% over the course of the next four
quarters. If it does, that will be a headwind for us. But if it doesn't, you should have an easier compare next year from
an FX perspective.
You brought up costs. You are correct that in fact when you look at some of the actions that are behind the
restructuring charge we took at the end of 2014, many of those savings won't really get to full-year run rate until you
get to 2016. I'd also remind you that we've said all along that we will be mindful as we think about volume trends and
Costco going away about what further steps we can take to make other improvements in our cost structure.
So all of those things, Sanjay, to conclude, combine to say my view of what this company can generate in 2016 is really
the same today as it was in February when we first provided the guidance. And my view of 2015 is we really have
come in within the envelope that we set for ourselves, leaving ourselves enough flexibility to make the right decisions
to run the company for the long term.
<Q - Sanjay Sakhrani>: Thank you.
Operator
Okay, thank you. Next question is from the line of Rick Shane of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
<Q - Richard B. Shane>: Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question, just a quick clarification. It looks like you restated
book value historically. Can you just tell us what happened there?
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: Restated – you might need to help me out, Rick. I'm not sure what...
<Q - Richard B. Shane>: When we look back, the book value didn't tie out to what we had previously. And when we
went back and looked at the old numbers, there was a difference. Is there anything there, or are we just screwing
something up?
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: This may be one we need to take offline. I'm looking around at my colleagues here and
we're not quite sure, but let's get to the bottom of this.
<Q - Richard B. Shane>: Okay, I'll follow up with you offline. Thank you, Jeff.
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: All right. Thanks, Rick.
Operator
Company Name: American Express
Company Ticker: AXP US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 16
Okay, thank you, and next question from the line of David Hochstim of Buckingham Research. Please go ahead.
<Q - David Hochstim>: Thanks. Hi, Jeff. I wonder. Could you expand on your comments about enterprise growth and
the changes you made? And I guess I really want to understand also for the $91 million impairment charge, is it a
one-time item, or is that recurring? Because it's really equal to the FX headwind and the co-brand headwind if it's not
recurring.
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: So a couple of comments. We are continually looking at all of the choices we have about
where we invest in our management and financial resources in order to produce the best outcome for our shareholders,
and we continually learn from things we try. We continually need to react to the evolving competitive and regulatory
environment in which we operate.
And so one of the things that we've done over the last quarter is made some different decisions about product strategies
and resource allocation around a number of the businesses that are a part of enterprise growth. As you do that from a
pure accounting perspective, the reality in a company like ours where you're developing a lot of software and where
you capitalize a fair amount of that software is you sometimes end up with things on the balance sheet that relate to
products that you're deemphasizing or not going to continue with.
One of the examples I did call out in my remarks is we had planned to launch the Serve product in Mexico. That may
still be a good idea at some point, but we decided looking around at all of our other opportunities, that's not something
we want to further invest in right now. And that does drive pulling some assets off the balance sheet. So all of that leads
you to this is certainly not a recurring event. This is a one-time charge that is reflective of decisions that were made this
quarter.
I would just make the observation that I tried to be pretty clear in my remarks that in the current challenging
competitive regulatory and economic environment, you will see us continually making changes to the organization and
to where we choose to put resources. And that may from time to time drive other kinds of one-time charges or
contingencies. Now it won't stop us from doing things that we think are in the best interests of long-term value creation
for our shareholders.
<Q - David Hochstim>: Okay. But wouldn't you then consider this as a one-time item like FX this quarter?
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: It suppose it depends, David, on exactly how you want to define one-time item. I'm just
trying to be clear on what the $91 million was.
<Q - David Hochstim>: Okay, sorry. I know only one question like everybody else. The Costco gain, is that included
in your 2016 guidance?
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: No, I think we've always said going back to when we first provided the outlook on
February 12 that our comment that we will return to positive EPS growth in 2016 was really agnostic on the question of
what happens with Costco and did not include any particular net gain on the Costco sale.
<Q - David Hochstim>: Thanks a lot.
Operator
Okay, thank you, and the next question from the line of Chris Brendler of Stifel. Please go ahead.
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: Chris?
Operator
Chris Brendler, your line is open.
<Q - Christopher Brendler>: Sorry, I was on mute. Can you hear me now?
Company Name: American Express
Company Ticker: AXP US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 13 of 16
Operator
Yes.
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: Yes, loud and clear.
<Q - Christopher Brendler>: Sorry. Hi, thanks for taking my question. Good afternoon. So I want to ask a follow-up
question on the U.S. business. We've heard some of your competitors complaining about that the competitive
environment in the U.S. and just how aggressive the rewards competition has become. I really haven't heard American
Express address that as a specific issue that's weighing on growth. So maybe you can just help me think about what's
happening in the U.S. business. It has decelerated, but is that mostly just the co-brands that you've potentially lost, or is
there also increased competition there?
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: Chris, I try never to complain. I try to focus on what we can do better, and there are
always plenty of things that we can do better on. Look, it's a challenging competitive environment, and we would not
dispute that in any way.
And I think I started my earlier comments by saying it's a pretty challenging environment. All that said, our goal at
American Express is to take the many fairly unique strengths that we have and find ways to really create great offerings
for our Card Members and our merchants in ways that are not necessarily easily replicable. The strength of our brand is
something I think nobody else can really match. The breadth of our product line, which allows us to offer very targeted
value propositions because everybody who is listening to this call will have a different range of things that they value
most, and we think the breadth of our product line really allows us to hone in on the many different demographic
groups and targets that we have who we think we can provide value for.
Our reputation for service, our global reach, the size and scale of our proprietary rewards program, Membership
Rewards, some of the data and analytics we get from the closed loop and the way that allows us to be very targeted in
our marketing and very targeted in how we work with our merchants and how we put together offers, those are all the
kinds of things that we try very hard to leverage, so that as we think about what is undoubtedly a very competitive
environment, we're not just out there saying boy, can we offer 10 basis points more on a cash-back card than everybody
else because that's going to be the whole determinant.
You've heard me say on these calls before, there will always be some portion of Card Members who actually do want
to go to a website, pop the math in, and say what card is going to produce the best math for me, and we're going to have
a tougher time using some of our differentiated strengths for that segment. In our experience, that is still a minority of
customers. And we think the breadth of our product line and the many strengths we have allow us to compete in ways
that produce better outcomes for our shareholders.
<Q - Christopher Brendler>: Okay, thank you.
Operator
Okay, thank you, next question from the line of David Ho of Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
<Q - David Hochstim>: Hi, good evening. I just want to circle back on Costco mitigation. Obviously, it's a
broad-based approach you're taking, but we're seeing evidence that you're targeting Costco customers and trying to
maybe transition some of the value onto your existing ongoing cards like the Blue Cash Everyday. Is that something
that makes sense in terms of transitioning from the value onto your core products for some of your more attractive
Costco customers ahead of the sale?
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: David, I'd make a few points. We see many opportunities to grow our business and to
grow our Card Member base across all of our consumer business portfolios around the globe. One of the reasons we
concluded earlier this year that in the long run, we had better opportunities than going forward with what we think it
Company Name: American Express
Company Ticker: AXP US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 14 of 16
would have taken to maintain our relationship with Costco, we based it on the view that we have many growth
opportunities, and that's what we're pursuing. And we're really pleased that if you just look at the new cards acquired
numbers this quarter, it comes from every part of our company.
Now certainly, one of the avenues for growth is there's some portion of Costco Card Members who have strong ties to
American Express. And we'd love to work at capturing the spend and lend of those people, subject to, as I've also said
many times, the normal provisions you would expect in most of these kinds of contracts that put a lot of limitations
around how you specifically market to the Costco Card Member. So we are very diligent about making sure we adhere
to the spirit and letter of that contract.
So our marketing efforts are really about how do we just in general market to all the many groups across the U.S. and
across the globe that we think are attractive candidates to be Card Members of American Express. And certainly as we
do that, some portion of the Costco Card Members are liable to see those efforts and likely to be interested in pursuing
a relationship with American Express in another way.
<Q - David Hochstim>: Okay, thanks. And on a related note, can you please remind us? How quickly when you find a
new card customer – it really depends on the mix – but how quickly do you typically see a pickup in revolving activity
after some of these new card acquisitions? Is it a few quarters? Is it one year out? How are you thinking about that?
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: I want to be a little careful about being specific because when you have the breadth of
products we do from consumer to business to corporations to lend products to charge card products, the answer is a
little different for every one of those types of products.
As a really general matter though, look, as I said in my remarks, while we're really pleased that we acquired 2.3 million
new Card Members this quarter, there's a process of getting them to understand the product they have, beginning to
build spend, beginning to build a little bit of loyalty to American Express. For those who are going to engage in lend or
borrowing behavior, that balance then has to build. As a general matter, I really think of getting to the point where you
have a meaningful bottom line contribution from new cards you acquire as being something that happens in the second
and third year. You'll see other metrics show up much more quickly. But at the end of the day, we're very focused on
what it takes to get people to profitability.
<Q - David Hochstim>: Great, thank you.
Operator
Okay, thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Cheryl Pate of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
<Q - Cheryl M. Pate>: Hi, good afternoon. I just wanted to touch back on the comments earlier about the average
transaction size coming down a little bit. I appreciate the color around gas and airlines. I'm just wondering if there's
anything else we should be thinking about there as well. For example, in some of the new card acquisitions, is that a
meaningfully different customer than your current average customer, or does something like OptBlue where we're
adding a lot of small merchants, does that factor in somehow as well?
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: Those are all actually really good questions, Cheryl, with probably answers that are not as
precise as any of us would like. I'd make a couple of points. Our transaction growth has been, to make a general
statement, fairly consistent over the last couple years at around that 7% level. What is quite striking in recent quarters is
the way the average transaction size has really – the trend line has really changed. Certainly, some of the things we do
about our steady efforts to drive more everyday spend, you would expect over a long period of time at a gradual rate to
have an impact here. But what you really see is quite different and is a little bit more tied in timing to gas prices going
down to some of the challenges the airlines have had on the revenue side. And in fact, we see the average transaction
size coming down across other categories like retail as well.
So I have to tell you at this point, we're still spending a lot of time thinking ourselves about just what it all means. I
think there's probably a little bit of influence from some of the things we're doing internally. But I think there's a lot of
Company Name: American Express
Company Ticker: AXP US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 15 of 16
influence from a variety of external factors than just what's going on in the overall very low inflation to in so many
categories, frankly, negative inflation in the economy that we're now doing business in.
<Q - Cheryl M. Pate>: Great, thanks very much.
Operator
Okay, thank you, next question from the line of Mark DeVries of Barclays. Please go ahead.
<Q - Mark C. DeVries>: Hi, I have actually a related question. If we look back over the past three quarters, U.S. Card
Member loan growth has actually outpaced U.S. card service billed business growth by 1% to 2%. Historically, we've
seen the opposite, where billed business growth really led your loan growth going forward. Is that a sign, Jeff, that
you're shifting on incremental growth towards more of a lend-centric customer base than a spend-centric? And if so,
what are the implications for the migration of returns?
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: That's a good question, Mark. I think you have to keep this in perspective. So if you look
overall at American Express, net interest income is, depending on how you want to measure it, 15% to 20% of our
P&L. That's unlike any of our competitors where the numbers are 50% to 90%. We have a very spend-centric
collection of businesses. When the Costco loan portfolio goes away in 2016, that's 20% of the loan portfolio that drives
that net interest income. So we have in our view a long ways to go over the next few years just to stay in place in terms
of the current contribution that lend makes to the overall economics of the company.
And that's why we do in the U.S. consumer business as well as some of our other businesses see a little bit of
opportunity to continue on the path we've been on for a few years, which is when you look at our own customers, we
under-index on our share getting our share of their borrowing behavior versus the share of their spend behavior we get.
That to us is just an opportunity too obvious for us not to continually work at and seize. And that's really what has
allowed us for many quarters now to steadily grow our loan balances above where the industry was growing them in
the U.S. while you hear us over and over again say, but we're comfortable that we're doing that without materially
changing the risk profile of the company. So that's really all you see going on here.
And as I said, I think we will be quite some time once the Costco loan portfolio goes away before we even get back to
where we are today. But the exciting thing to us is we see a long ramp that should allow us to continue to grow loans in
the U.S. a little bit faster than the industry while not changing the risk profile of the company.
<Q - Mark C. DeVries>: Got it, thank you.
<A - Sherwood S. Willard, Jr.>: Rochelle, we have time for one more question.
Operator
Okay, thank you. And then the final question then comes from the line of David Togut of Evercore ISI. Please go
ahead.
<Q - David Mark Togut>: Thank you. With interchange caps going into effect this December in Europe, what actions
will American Express take to sustain your growth? Even though your proprietary business will not be regulated, your
merchant discount rate could be twice as high as MasterCard's, which potentially could negatively pressure merchant
acceptance.
<A - Jeffrey C. Campbell>: So good question, David. We have said for a while that when you look at the EU
regulation, which to remind everyone is really targeted at Visa/MasterCard and will cap interchange rates, that will put
some downward pressure on our discount rates. And frankly, you see that downward pressure even this year. Despite
that, we're actually pretty pleased with our performance in Europe this year. And I would point out to you that we have
long had in Europe, in most countries, it varies by country, but in most countries a significant premium to MasterCard
and Visa, so that's not a new phenomenon.
Company Name: American Express
Company Ticker: AXP US
Date: 2015-10-21
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 16 of 16
What the interchange regulation will do is put downward pressure on us, not to go to the point where the interchange is
capped, but put pressure on us to move it down probably to keep the differential more similar. So I think we'll have to
see how this goes. I will tell you that sitting here today, we're pretty pleased by this year's results. And you already see
changes at the competitive environment as a number of issuers have announced pullbacks on the products or rewards
they're able to offer. And like all of these things, our challenge and opportunity is to try to find ways to mitigate the
obvious downside, which is it will put some downward pressure on our discount rates in Europe, but try to offset that
with saying what opportunities does it create to perhaps do some things that others can't. And at the end of the day, I
think what the European regulations are really seeking is a more competitive European environment. Our market shares
in most of those countries are quite small, so we'd love to be more competitive and find ways to grow over time. But
we'll have to see.
<Q - David Mark Togut>: Thank you.
Jeffrey C. Campbell
So let me thank you all for joining tonight's call. Toby, do you want to make a few last comments?
Sherwood S. Willard, Jr.
Sure. Thanks, Jeff.
As part of our commitment to provide investors with exposure to company leadership, our executives plan to speak at
several events in the fourth quarter. Looking ahead to next few months, American Express Vice Chairman Steve Squeri
plans to present in the Citi Financial Technology Conference in New York City on November 10. Additionally, Jeff
Campbell plans to participate in the JPMorgan Financial Technologies and Specialty Finance Forum in New York on
December 2. And finally, our Chief Executive Officer, Ken Chenault, plans to participate in the Goldman Sachs U.S.
Financial Services Conference in New York on December 9. Live audio webcasts of each of these events will be made
available to the general public through the American Express Investor Relations website at ir.americanexpress.com.
Thank you again for joining tonight's call and thank you for your continued interest in American Express. Rochelle, I'll
turn it back over to you.
Operator
Okay, thank you, and that concludes our conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using AT&T
Executive Teleconference Service. You may now disconnect.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.