Company Name: Xerox
Company Ticker: XRX US
Date: 2015-10-26
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 1 of 12
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Ursula M. Burns
• Kathryn A. Mikells
• Jennifer Horsley
• Robert K. Zapfel
Other Participants
• Shannon S. Cross
• George K. F. Tong
• Tien-tsin Huang
• Keith F. Bachman
• Brian L. Essex
• James Dickey Suva
• Ananda P. Baruah
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning and welcome to the Xerox Corporation third quarter 2015 earnings release conference call, hosted by
Ursula Burns, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. She is joined by Kathy Mikells, Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call, Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor. At the
request of Xerox Corporation, today's conference call is being recorded. Other recording and/or rebroadcasting of this
call are prohibited without the expressed permission of Xerox. After the presentation, there will be a
question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]
During this conference call, Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which, by
their nature, address matters that are in the future and are uncertain. Actual future financial results may be materially
different than those expressed herein.
At this time, I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Burns. Ms. Burns, you may begin.
Ursula M. Burns
Good morning and thanks for joining our call. Today, we reported our third quarter results and provided an update on
the fourth quarter and full year outlook. During this call, we will update you on our strategy, provide details on our
third quarter results, and share the actions that we are taking to improve our business. So let me begin with a look at our
priorities.
In Services, our goal is to lead in attractive segments of the business services market, and throughout the year we've
taken steps to strengthen this business, including acquisitions to build our commercial healthcare offerings and the
divestiture of ITO.
Company Name: Xerox
Company Ticker: XRX US
Date: 2015-10-26
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 2 of 12
As we announced two weeks ago, we are also taking action to improve our future financial performance and
significantly reduce the volatility of our results with the update to our Government Healthcare business strategy. With
these strategy changes to our Government Healthcare business, we are more clearly focused on the most profitable
segments of our Services business.
In Document Technology, our efforts are focused on continuing to lead the market. We maintained our number one
market share position in equipment sales revenue for the 23rd straight quarter, closing in on six years, a solid record of
leadership. And we're seeing good demand from small and mid-sized businesses, an important growth segment through
Global Imaging Systems and with the growth of our Partner Print solutions sold through our channels.
Also in the third quarter, we launched our new communication platform, Work Can Work Better, and we are pleased
with the reactions so far. Our new advertising and digital content highlight how we're enabling businesses and
governments to achieve better results by helping them work better.
For our shareholders, we have returned more than 50% of our free cash flow to them over the last four years, and we
are on track to do even more this year. Through September, we completed $1.3 billion in share repurchases, achieving
our full-year expectations. Although we have already taken steps to accelerate cost reductions and prioritize
investments to drive improved revenue, productivity, and margins, we announced today that the Xerox Board of
Directors has authorized a comprehensive review of structural options for the company's business portfolio and capital
allocation, with the goal of enhancing shareholder value. And let's look at the third quarter performance.
During the third quarter we delivered adjusted earnings per share of $0.24. That's in line with our guidance, which
excludes $0.05 related to the amortization of intangibles and $0.23 from the previously announced Health Enterprise
charge.
Because the circumstances in Health Enterprise are unique, I'll speak to our adjusted results in the quarter, which better
reflects our underlying operating performance. Total adjusted revenue was $4.4 billion, down 4% in constant currency.
On an adjusted basis, Services revenue was consistent with the same period last year, and we delivered sequential
improvement in our Services margin. Document Outsourcing continued to perform well overall. And BPO was down
1%, which was consistent with previous quarters.
There are a few highlights in Services that I would like to share. Acquisitions remain a key aspect of our portfolio
management strategy. And in the third quarter, we acquired RSA Medical and iPAS, expanding our fleet of
healthcare-related offerings.
Our new go-to-market teams are establishing leadership roles in their industries. As examples, our retail team convened
top clients and thought leaders at a Xerox Retail Industry Summit, and Xerox Analytics were demonstrated at the grand
opening of Mcity, the University of Michigan's one-of-a-kind test site for connected and automated vehicles. And a
number of Services offerings received external recognition. We retained the top position in Quocirca's Managed Print
Services Market Landscape Report for the sixth consecutive year. And for the third year running, Everest Group rated
Xerox as a leading service provider for Contact Center Outsourcing BPO.
Now moving on to Document Technology, Document Technology revenue was down 9% in constant currency, which
is lower than we had expected, and mostly was driven by increased pressures in developing markets. Excluding the
impact of developing markets, the revenue trends in Document Technology remained stable. Document Technology
margin of 12.8% were strong and within our guidance range of 11% to 13%.
Some additional Doc Tech highlights, we're seeing the benefits of recent product launches with strong demand for our
new Entry Production Color devices. And we showcased the best of Team Xerox at Graph Expo, the largest U.S. trade
show for the graphic communications market, including two new Xerox Digital Production Color presses, the Xerox
iGen 5 Press and the Xerox Rialto 900 Inkjet Press. We also rolled out FreeFlow Core Cloud, which is the latest release
in our leading Workflow Automation portfolio.
In total, the company generated operating cash flow of $271 million, and we returned $774 million to shareholders
through dividends and share repurchases.
Company Name: Xerox
Company Ticker: XRX US
Date: 2015-10-26
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 3 of 12
Now I'll turn it over to Kathy to provide more details on the quarter, and I'll be back later to share fourth quarter
guidance and wrap up. Kathy?
Kathryn A. Mikells
Thanks, Ursula, and good morning, everyone. I'll start with an overview of our financial performance before moving
into a more detailed discussion of the segments.
As announced two weeks ago, this quarter we recorded a pre-tax charge of $389 million or $241 million after tax,
reflecting that we no longer expect to fully complete the Health Enterprise platform projects in California and in
Montana. This decision will improve Xerox's future financial performance, as these implementations were generating
losses, and will remove an element of risk and volatility in the business. Accordingly, I'll provide results and growth
rates adjusting for the charge to give better visibility to the underlying business performance in the quarter.
Our bottom line results were within our third quarter guidance, with revenues a bit softer and profitability generally in
line with our expectations. Total revenue in the quarter was down 7% in actual currency and 4% at constant currency.
Services was flat at constant currency, as growth in Document Outsourcing offset a 1% decline in BPO. Document
Technology declined 9% in constant currency and was impacted by increasing weakness in developing markets.
Gross margin of 30.9% was down 130 basis points year over year, driven by a lower technology equipment gross
margin as well as a greater mix of services, which carries a lower margin. RD&E was slightly lower year over year.
SAG in absolute dollars was down 9%. SAG as a percent of revenue was better by 40 basis points, helped by currency
and our ongoing productivity initiatives, as well as lower compensation and benefit expense. Our third quarter
operating margin of 8.7% decreased 90 basis points year over year and operating profit declined 16%. Over 40% of the
operating profit decline was driven by currency and developing markets.
Moving down the income statement, adjusted other net expense was $8 million lower year over year, driven by lower
restructuring costs. Equity income was $40 million in the quarter, down $4 million year over year, driven in part by the
continued impact of negative translation currency. Our third quarter adjusted tax rate of 24.6% was at the low end of
our guidance range of 25% to 27%. Our third quarter adjusted EPS was at the top of our guidance range at $0.24.
I'll now move on to discuss our operational performance in Services. Services revenue declined 3% and was flat at
constant currency. BPO was down 1%, consistent with the second quarter, reflecting the headwind from last year's
larger contract losses, lower inorganic contribution, as well as lower new contract ramp from softer signings in
previous quarters. Good growth continues in Document Outsourcing, up 3%, driven by strong Xerox Partner Print
Services growth, as well as good equipment revenue growth in enterprise accounts from recent strong signings.
Total signings in the quarter were down 7%, but are up 5% on a trailing 12-month basis. New business signings were
down 9% year over year, as growth in Document Outsourcing was more than offset by declines in BPO. Our
go-to-market investments and move to industry business groups are beginning to result in good growth and shorter
sales cycle offerings, such as customer care. But we have yet to see a pickup in higher value, longer sales cycle
offerings. Our renewal rate in the quarter was 89%, which was at the high end of our target range of 85% to 90% and
reflects continued overall good customer retention.
Turning to margin, segment margin was 8.1%, in line with our expectations for sequential improvement from 7.5% in
the second quarter. Margin was down 100 basis points year over year, reflecting investments in resources and in our
new Services operating model, negative business mix within BPO, as well as higher overhead as we work to lean out
cost following the ITO divestiture. We continue to expect productivity from operational initiatives and our recent
restructuring to yield increasing benefits in the fourth quarter.
I'll now turn to Document Technology. Document Technology revenue in the quarter was down 9% at constant
currency. Developing market weakness, including negative currency, accelerated in the third quarter, contributing more
than one-third of the constant currency revenue decline. Also contributing to the decline in the third quarter was
high-end revenue. After good equipment growth in the second quarter, high-end was weaker in the third quarter,
Company Name: Xerox
Company Ticker: XRX US
Date: 2015-10-26
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 4 of 12
reflecting in part timing of product launches, including our recently announced iGen 5, which should help us drive
improvement in the fourth quarter.
From a total printing perspective, combining Document Technology with Document Outsourcing, revenue's been fairly
stable, down 5% in the third quarter and down 4% year-to-date at constant currency.
Turning to activity, we saw strong growth in entry A4 color driven by new products, relatively stable results in
mid-range, but weaker installs in mix of products and high-end. Document Technology margin of 12.8% was down
year over year, but within our full-year guidance of 11% to 13%. Year-over-year drivers include negative equipment
mix given better A4 results and the anticipated higher pension expense, partially offset by lower compensation and
benefit expense. We continue to actively manage our cost base to ensure alignment to revenue trends. So in closing,
Doc Tech revenues were slightly lower than expected, but profitability remains strong.
Turning now to cash. Cash flow from operations was $271 million in the quarter, which was lower than prior-year cash
flow of $595 million. The decline year over year reflects lower profit in Document Technology with the two largest
drivers being continued negative currency impact and developing markets weakness, lower profits in Services, driven
by margin decline, as well as the expected loss of cash flow from the ITO business following the divestiture.
Additionally, working capital was a use of cash due to timing of vendor payments, as well as lower demand and timing
of shipments impacting inventory. The Health Enterprise charge in the third quarter had a negligible impact on cash in
the period, and we anticipate the approximate $225 million of cash outflows will be spread over time.
Moving down the cash flow statement, investing cash flows were a $206 million use, driven by $65 million spent on
CapEx and $153 million on acquisitions. Cash flow from financing was an $888 million use, which included $691
million spent on share repurchases and $90 million used for preferred and common stock dividend. And our cash
balance at the end of the quarter was just over $800 million. So, cash flow in the third quarter was impacted by lower
operating profit, as well as working capital timing.
Now, I'll review our capital structure. We ended the third quarter with $7.6 billion in debt. Applying 7:1 leverage on
customer financing assets, our allocated financing debt at the end of the third quarter was $3.9 billion, leaving core debt
of $3.7 billion. In the fourth quarter, we are now anticipating an additional $200 million debt reduction, which will
bring our year-end debt level to approximately $7.4 billion, a $350 million debt reduction for the year. This reduction
will help offset the impact to our credit metrics from lower earnings and the reduction in our financing assets. Overall,
we continue to manage our capital structure to maintain credit metrics consistent with our investment-grade rating.
I'll now hand it back to Ursula to discuss capital allocation and guidance.
Ursula M. Burns
With less than a quarter left in the year, we can be more definitive on our remaining uses of capital. As Kathy just
mentioned, we have spent about $200 million on acquisitions year-to-date, and we don't anticipate closing any large
acquisitions before year end. We now expect to deploy an additional $200 million of capital toward debt reduction, and
we will spend $300 million on dividends. And lastly, on share repurchase, we reached our full year target of $1.3
billion in quarter three. This represents an 115 million reduction in shares year to date and a 10% reduction of our share
count this year.
I will now discuss guidance. Starting with revenue, we expect an improvement in the fourth quarter, but considering
current trends, we now expect full year revenue will be down approximately 3% at constant currency, in line with
year-to-date results, with Services flat to up 1% and Document Technology down 6% to 7%. From a margin
perspective in Doc Tech, we expect continued strong margins, with quarter four and full-year margins in the middle of
our full-year range of 11% to 13%.
In Services, we anticipate sequential improvement and for margins to be approximately 9% in quarter four. So we're
making progress in Services, but we do not expect to get to the 8.5% margin for the full year. And for earnings, we
expect quarter four adjusted EPS to be between $0.28 and $0.30. And for full year we anticipate being at the low end of
Company Name: Xerox
Company Ticker: XRX US
Date: 2015-10-26
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 5 of 12
our previously guided range of $0.95 to $1.01.
Lastly, we expect free cash flow in the range of $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion, with modestly lower operating cash flow of
between $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion and CapEx that is now also expected to be lower.
So in summary for the third quarter, we achieved adjusted earnings in line with our guidance, but we have come
through the nine-month point and we're not satisfied with our performance. We are sharpening our focus on execution
across the enterprise. We continue to lead an aggressive agenda to strengthen our offering portfolio and target segments
where we are best positioned to compete and differentiate. And across both Services and Technology, we're prioritizing
investments, taking actions to improve revenue and margin and managing cost in Doc Tech to maintain our
profitability.
And as previously mentioned, we are reviewing structural options for the company's business portfolio and capital
allocation, with the goal of enhancing shareholder value. As we undertake this activity, we are focused on the execution
of our strategy and remaining fully committed to our customers, partners, suppliers, and employees and to delivering
strong financial results.
Finally, before we go to Q&A, as you know, this is Kathy Mikells' last earnings call. I'd like to thank Kathy for her
financial leadership and contributions to Xerox during her time with us. Leslie Varon will be stepping in as the interim
CFO, a position that she has held previously. Leslie has deep experience and great connections throughout the business,
so I know we won't miss a beat with this transition.
With that, let me turn it over to Jennifer.
Jennifer Horsley
Thanks, Ursula. Joining Ursula and Kathy today is Bob Zapfel, Head of our Services business; as well as Jeff Jacobson,
Head of Technology. Also, let me point out that we have supplemental slides at the end of our deck. They provide more
financial detail to support today's presentation and complement our prepared remarks.
For the Q&A, I would ask participants to limit follow-ons and multipart questions so we can get to everyone. At the
end of our Q&A session, I will turn it back to Ursula for closing comments.
Operator, please open the line for questions now.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Shannon Cross from Cross Research.
<Q - Shannon S. Cross>: Thank you very much. Ursula, can you talk about? Your Services and Doc Tech business
have been under pressure for some time, so I'm curious as to what specifically is behind the decision to look at
structural options. And as Chairman and CEO, can you talk a bit about what types of actions you would say would
constitute a structural option?
<A - Ursula M. Burns>: Thank you, Shannon, for the question. The board and the management, we look at the
business portfolio, at the company strategy on a continuous basis. We consider a range of opportunities regarding the
business and the operations, and it's always focused on increasing shareholder value. So this type of activity, for
example, led us to look at ITO and to divest of that and to take a fundamental change in our Government Healthcare
strategy, particularly around Health Enterprise. So the structural options that we're looking at are both portfolio and
capital allocation options, and it's at an early stage so I really can't get into more details about that, about what is
happening because we haven't really progressed it that far.
Company Name: Xerox
Company Ticker: XRX US
Date: 2015-10-26
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 6 of 12
<Q - Shannon S. Cross>: And I guess what made the change? In your mind looking at how the businesses, what made
it happen or be announced this quarter versus prior? Is there anything significant that changed, or how did this come
about?
<A - Ursula M. Burns>: I think that the board decided – and I'm a member of the board, obviously, the Chairman of
the Board – we decided to make it public. We decided as a group to make it public. I think that the review process,
though, is an important thing to keep in mind. It is a fairly broad-based review. It is not – one of the things that we have
not – we're not currently considering is the sale of the company, but all other options will be looked at as we progress
through this review. We're not going to actually speak a lot about timing of it. We're not going to make a lot more
public statements about it, so I understand there's a lot of questions, but we have to kind of go through the process at
the end and – we have to go through the process before we can say anything more
<Q - Shannon S. Cross>: Okay. Thank you. And then just one other question. You've taken down 2015 cash flow
guidance a bit given some of the pressures in emerging markets and that. How are you thinking about 2016 as we look
forward just maybe, even if you can't give us specific high-level puts and takes on how we should think about cash
flow?
<A - Ursula M. Burns>: Let me start with the top line and we'll start with revenue, and then I'll turn it over to Kathy
and myself to talk about cash flow. I think that we'll see continued pressure in developing markets. I don't expect to see
any turnaround there and maybe even a little bit more headwind than we've seen so far there. Doc Tech margins, we
expect them to remain strong. We're going to do a whole review of what's happening in 2016 at our fourth quarter
earnings call in January, so these are just high-level comments.
Why don't you go into cash?
<A - Kathryn A. Mikells>: Sure. And so other things I would just point to, currency has been a huge headwind for the
company this year. If we had to call currency today, which by the way we don't, but if we had to call it today, we'd call
it looking fairly neutral. In 2016, another driver overall of cash flow is pension and our approach there really hasn't
changed. So I wouldn't expect any kind of big changes year over year in terms of what we're trying to do in pension.
And then, obviously, one of the big things that we've got to continue to execute on is just managing working capital.
That was a particular headwind for us in this quarter and something that we'd expect actually we'd improve on as we
get through our fourth quarter and something we'll be very mindful of as we look forward to 2016. And then the last
thing I'd mention, Shannon, is we sold the pieces of our financing portfolio in 2012 and 2013. The impact of that
diminishes over time, and so that gives us a little bit of a natural uplift in 2016.
<A - Ursula M. Burns>: One last point. On the Health Enterprise charges that we took for 2016, actually for the fourth
quarter and 2016, we'll have a little bit of headwind in revenue, the first half of 2016. It will reduce our volatility,
which is one of the things that we really suffered from in 2015, so that's the good news there. And we should be able to
see some improved profitability as these contracts were at a loss. That's the other thing we can see in 2016.
<A - Jennifer Horsley>: Thanks, Shannon. Operator, next question?
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of George Tong from Piper Jaffray.
<Q - George K. F. Tong>: Thanks, good morning. First off, Kathy, we wish you well in your new endeavors.
<A - Kathryn A. Mikells>: Thanks very much.
<Q - George K. F. Tong>: I guess, Ursula, can you discuss whether you see strategic value in having the Services
business together with the Document Technology business?
<A - Ursula M. Burns>: The answer is that my position on that hasn't changed to-date, and that's the strategy that
we're executing on, which is yes, that we do see to-date strategic value in having these two businesses together. As you
Company Name: Xerox
Company Ticker: XRX US
Date: 2015-10-26
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 7 of 12
go through the review, that's one of the things that we'll validate.
<Q - George K. F. Tong>: Got it. And, Bob, in the Government Healthcare space, can you give us an update on New
Hampshire, Alaska, North Dakota and New York, and what implementation milestones and costs might be coming up?
<A - Robert K. Zapfel>: Sure. So the first three, New Hampshire, Alaska and now North Dakota, are all live. We went
live in North Dakota two weeks ago, early October, so they're in operate mode, so we would not expect them to have
new development expenses where we've had the unpredictability that had been an issue in both California and Montana
has been on a new system build as opposed to operate. In New York, we are building the new system. As you'll
remember, the big difference with New York was it was bid after the move to the system we had already implemented
in New Hampshire, so we were not building from scratch. They were buying something that – the Health Enterprise
platform that we had built and we're still in the front end of that development, but optimistic that we will be able to
drive that within the costs that we've modeled.
<Q - George K. F. Tong>: Great, thank you.
<A - Jennifer Horsley>: Thanks, George. Operator, next question?
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Tien-tsin Huang from JPMorgan.
<Q - Tien-tsin Huang>: Great. Thank you. Kathy, I also want to wish you the best in the next gig. Just wanted to I
guess for Ursula, just obviously a lot's going on with the CFO transition and then you mentioned the review and the
capital allocation and portfolio retrenching in government as well. I think you said you don't have a timetable, but I'm
curious, how do you expect to, I guess, address and update us on some of these big items?
<A - Ursula M. Burns>: I think that any normal operational item we'll update you on quarter calls like we generally
do. As far as the portfolio, business portfolio and capital allocation review, we don't intend to give updates through the
process. So we're not even sure, we're not even assuring that there'll be any outcome of that process that's something
that we'll make public. So I think what we've to do is when we're ready to speak to you about it, if and when we'll speak
to you about it, business update, normal business and operational updates you'll get through interactions with us on a
normal basis.
<Q - Tien-tsin Huang>: And then timetable on the CFO transition...
<A - Ursula M. Burns>: As far as the CFO...
<Q - Tien-tsin Huang>: Yeah.
<A - Ursula M. Burns>: As far as the CFO transition goes, it's always unfortunate to see a CFO leave, particularly
someone with the quality and caliber of Kathy, so we are wishing her well as you guys do, but we're disappointed in
that transition. The good news is that I have a compatriot who has been with me and this company for 30 years or more,
who has done this acting CFO thing once before. The community knows her. Outside the company, the community
knows her and loves her inside the company, so I don't expect to miss a beat at all.
<A - Jennifer Horsley>: Great. Thanks, Tien-tsin. Next question, please?
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Keith Bachman from Bank of Montreal.
<Q - Keith F. Bachman>: Hi. I also wanted to start at the strategic level. If I think back about what's happened this
year, the buyback has been, call it, over $1 billion, $1.3 billion and M&A has been a couple hundred million dollars.
And so the portfolio has actually decreased or it really hasn't increased through M&A, and the company has been
Company Name: Xerox
Company Ticker: XRX US
Date: 2015-10-26
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 8 of 12
buying back aggressively on stock. And I'm just wondering how you're thinking about that as you look forward?
In other words, the stock really hasn't done much. It's down a little bit this year, down actually a decent amount, yet
you've been buying back and really haven't added to the Services portfolio. I'm not suggesting that you go out and buy
aggressively at any price. But the capital allocation strategy combined with weak market really hasn't seemed to create
value, and I'm just wondering how you're positioning that as part of your strategic decision-making process here as you
look out over the next couple of months?
<A - Ursula M. Burns>: Yeah, I think that for the remainder of this year, as I said in my remarks, we don't expect to
actually complete any significant M&A at all. So I think where we are on M&A is where we are and we've already
made – met – reached the share repurchase hurdle that we had set for the full year. So I think that both share repurchase
and acquisitions, M&A is kind of done for the year, maybe a little bit more.
<Q - Keith F. Bachman>: Yeah, I'm thinking about more over the next six to 12 months.
<A - Ursula M. Burns>: Yeah, so let me go forward. I just wanted to state that – thank you, Keith. On a go-forward
basis, our strategy remains to return at least 50% of our available cash to shareholders, and we'll continue to do that
through share repurchase and through dividends in 2016 at the current – the current plan. We'll update you more on that
in 2000 – in the fourth quarter earnings in January. As far as M&A, it's one of the integral pieces of the expansion of
our Services business, and so we'll continue to look for accretive tuck-in acquisitions in Services, particularly around
the areas where we see differentiation and strength, transportation and commercial healthcare, these areas. So we'll
continue to look for M&A in 2016, and we'll continue our return to shareholder strategy in 2016. If anything changes
from that, we'll update you when appropriate.
<Q - Keith F. Bachman>: Okay. If I could just sneak in a follow-up then, as you think about strategic alternatives on
the printing side of the business, is there more that could be done? And more could have many definitions, but
associated with your partner in Japan, Fuji, to leverage that relationship?
<A - Ursula M. Burns>: I think that as we look at structural options for the company's business portfolio and capital
allocation, we will look at all available levers there. I'm sure the company will do that. The board will do that.
<Q - Keith F. Bachman>: Okay.
<A - Jennifer Horsley>: Hey, Keith...
<Q - Keith F. Bachman>: Thank you. Best of luck.
<A - Ursula M. Burns>: Thank you.
<A - Jennifer Horsley>: Operator, next question?
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Brian Essex from Morgan Stanley.
<Q - Brian L. Essex>: Good morning and thank you for taking the question. I was wondering if I could pose a
question to Bob. I guess given the recent announcement that you're deciding to shorten the contract implementation
dates for both California and Montana, I was wondering if you could maybe highlight a little bit what to expect on the
margin front and how much shorter those contracts could potentially be. And I guess what I'm getting at is realizing
that you have an operational overhang, as you're implementing those contracts, might we see a little bit better margins
sooner, and what might that timeframe be once those contract implementation processes end?
<A - Robert K. Zapfel>: Look, if I can, I'll start first by explaining where we are in both California and Montana, and
then I'll try to be on point with the question. So really in both states, we and they, this was a mutual process, looked
ahead and said, given everything that had changed in terms of what they would want and where we were on the
development that there was still a long way to go, and it was better to call an audible than continue to develop the
Company Name: Xerox
Company Ticker: XRX US
Date: 2015-10-26
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 9 of 12
systems. And they and we were with us on for us to stay in a substantive long-term role as a fiscal agent operator,
which is the primary component of our operating revenue in both states.
Now what that will mean to us going forward is we will have, as Ursula briefly mentioned, we'll have some revenue
pressure. It's about a point on the Services segment revenue dynamics for the next three quarters. And it was also
roughly a point, not quite, but roughly a point last quarter. So that's a little bit of a downside.
The upside is that we had been very unpredictable. As you know, our Services margins have not been – we have not
been as consistent as we need to be because we had been recognizing more cost to development would hit the period
I&E because of percentage-of-completion accounting. So because of the change that we've made with them, we expect
to take that unpredictability out of our model, and we should have year-to-year improvements in 2016 because we were
losing money, but we're not already laying out next year's segment model until the January earnings call. So sorry about
the long answer, but hopefully that's on point.
<Q - Brian L. Essex>: Okay, that's very helpful. And so if I were to take California and Montana contracts, is there
any way to outline a revised timeline for those contracts? It sounds like California ending after Stage 2, is that
relatively close? And then Montana, I know that was a pretty faraway completion timeframe.
<A - Robert K. Zapfel>: Both of them from a – again, separate the new system development from the ongoing
operations. The ongoing operations we expect to have for an extended period. The new system development in both
cases will be inside 12 months and maybe inside a much shorter period of time.
<A - Ursula M. Burns>: Right. And the financial implications of that, Brian, all of that have been comprehended in
the charge that we took a couple of weeks ago. So we have kind of captured to the best of our ability and knowledge
the financials including the balance sheet impacts. We did that a couple of weeks ago. And we will then implement
that, the end of that, those development activities with the states in the next couple of quarters or so.
<Q - Brian L. Essex>: Great.
<A - Ursula M. Burns>: Yes, yes.
<A - Jennifer Horsley>: Thanks, Brian. Operator, next question?
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Jim Suva from Citigroup.
<Q - James Dickey Suva>: Thanks very much. I have two questions, and I will just mention them at the same time. So
first of all, on the announcement you made about the Board of Directors authorizing a review, can you confirm that it's
just your Board of Directors and internal doing it or did you hire somebody external or plan to external? And the reason
why I ask is, isn't the Board of Directors supposed to always review the company's business and capital allocation? And
so if it's internally, you really wonder what type of new news this information is.
Second question is or the follow-up is during this review process, does your stock buyback or capital allocation get put
on hold until you get the conclusion of it? Thank you very much.
<A - Ursula M. Burns>: As far as your first statement about the board's interaction with strategy development, et
cetera, et cetera, you are correct that this is a continuous activity with the board. This is what we talk about all the time
with the board, our strategy and as well as our operations. This – we've told you that what we're doing here is we're
looking at structural options for the business portfolio and capital allocation. This is something that they always do.
We've just decided to announce this to you this time. And we are not disclosing any advisors, who the – if we have
advisors, or who they are.
<A - Jennifer Horsley>: Great. Thanks, Jim. Operator, next question?
Company Name: Xerox
Company Ticker: XRX US
Date: 2015-10-26
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 10 of 12
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Ananda Baruah from Brean Capital.
<Q - Ananda P. Baruah>: Hi, guys, thanks for taking the question. And Kathy, good luck in your future endeavors. I
guess really I have a question and a quick follow-up. Really for Ursula and Bob, I guess in the context of how you
talked about your capital allocation going forward, but given also the new context about looking at strategic options,
philosophically how do you guys think about doing not tuck-ins, but larger services deals? And it sounds like you're
going to have maybe $700 million left over after capital allocation of generative cash annually to do deals. I don't know
that that could get you without levering up something significant. But clearly, there is some sort of intent behind
making this announcement the way that you guys have announced it. So I'd love to just get your thoughts on
philosophically your view on making larger Services deals. And then really I'd love to get your broader take on the
degree to which you think that actually is necessary given the fragmented nature of the BPO market? I'll actually just
leave it there. That will be my question. Thanks.
<A - Ursula M. Burns>: Okay, great. Baruah, I didn't answer the second part of Jim's question which is basically the
first part of your question, so sorry, Jim, and Ananda, I'll capture that. Our capital for this year, we have essentially
completed our share repurchase activities, as I said earlier. And we are still active in the market in M&A, but we have a
pipeline and that pipeline doesn't lead to anything significant for the remainder of this year. So from a capital allocation
on those two items, I think that we're really pretty much settled. CapEx, we talked about, we talked about the fact that
it's coming in a little bit lighter that'll help us. We're focused on remaining investment-grade, that's one of the things
that you know that we think that we need for both our Services and Tech business, and we'll continue to make sure that
we manage our capital to assure that we fall inside there. That's one.
Second is the fragmented nature of the Services market and our, therefore, M&A activities for the future. I mean, one
of the things that we will continue to need to do in the Services business is to consolidate some of this fragmentation,
particularly in areas that we have strength, and I would suspect, I would plan to and you should suspect that we'll
continue to do that type of activity as we go forward in the business-as-usual kind of a manner.
I didn't quite get to the $700 million that you got to because we haven't quite done 2016 yet, which I think is what you
were looking towards when you were making those numbers, those projections, Ananda. But as I said earlier, I don't
think that we see in the business-as-usual mode a lot of change in returning value to shareholders through an M&A
structure that continues to strengthen our Services business and to a debt structure that allows us to remain
investment-grade.
So those are the three kind of tenets that we're sitting on right now, and that's where I intend to come out as well. We'll
see if there's anything that changes as we go forward. We'll tell you about it, but it won't be before January, the January
call. I hope I answered everything that you had. It was kind of a long question. I hope I got all of it.
<Q - Ananda P. Baruah>: It was, but that was very helpful, Ursula. I guess just one quick follow-up is do you think
you can accomplish the kind of, I guess, consolidation in this key BPO areas that you want to, continuing with sort of
the small tuck-in approach as opposed to stepping into doing some larger deals and getting some bigger scale? That'll
be it then.
<A - Ursula M. Burns>: It's a great question, Ananda, and it's one that it's going to be hard to answer, not for any
reason except for that we have been trying to do the small tuck-ins and we find some good ones. And they come when
they come, we compete for them and we win some. You saw iPAS and RSA this last quarter. And we'll continue to try
to push on that area. We're not going to – we still have the same disciplined approach, we have a great kind of re-up in
that approach with the hiring of a great executive who's kind of M&A expert. So we'll continue to look at that type of
M&A for sure. And then when we look in that type of M&A, if we find something that's even more exciting, we're not
going to close our eyes to it. But that's not – we're not looking for massive companies to buy. We're trying to actually
stay in the ranges that we've been talking about, little bit bigger than small, and definitely smaller than large.
Company Name: Xerox
Company Ticker: XRX US
Date: 2015-10-26
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 11 of 12
<A - Robert K. Zapfel>: In trying to stay where we're really looking at the places where we think we're advantaged, so
that we're not looking broadly across the whole BPO portfolio, but on a select set of areas where we think we can even
further differentiate the firm for our clients.
<A - Ursula M. Burns>: One of the areas that we didn't get into at all but I think it's good to bring up now is that we
are heavily concentrated. We have a heavy concentration and strength in customer care, and in call center operations.
And we have a problem right now with the business mix. It's one of the challenges that we had in the third quarter and
that we're working hard to try to overcome as we go forward.
As we mix more towards customer care, it's a lower margin business, so we're trying to mix up towards higher margin,
more innovative solutions while we try to actually innovate in customer care. So the reason why I bring it up is our
M&A strategy is going to be towards these types of areas where the margins are stronger, where we don't continue to –
we want to stay leader in customer care, we don't want to walk away from that business, but we just are not selling
enough of the higher-margin businesses, business areas, and that's one of the things that we have to fix and we haven't
quite cracked that nut yet. So we're going to continue to acquire in those areas so that we can actually move away from
the more commodity-based customer care implementations.
<A - Jennifer Horsley>: Thanks, Ananda. Operator, I think we have time for one last question.
Operator
Thank you. And our final question for today comes from the line of Kulbinder Garcha from Credit Suisse. Mr. Garcha,
your line is open. Could you check your mute button, please?
<A - Jennifer Horsley>: Great. So if...
Operator
I think he's – he's not responded.
Jennifer Horsley
All right. So that's it. We'll wrap up. Thanks for your interest. Ursula, anything more to wrap up?
Ursula M. Burns
Yes, I just want to close with a thank you for listening, and while the third quarter adjusted earnings were in line with
our expectations, we know that we have a lot of work to do. I talked about some of the areas. Mix is one. We have to
make sure we manage our cash well for the remainder of the year, and we'll be focused on that. So thank you for
joining our call today.
Jennifer Horsley
Thanks, Ursula. That concludes our call today. If you have further questions, please contact me or any member of our
Investor Relations team.
Operator
Company Name: Xerox
Company Ticker: XRX US
Date: 2015-10-26
Event Description: Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Page 12 of 12
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This does conclude the
program, and you may now disconnect. Everyone, have a good day.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.