Company Name: Kraft Heinz Co/the
Company Ticker: KHC US
Date: 2015-08-14
Event Description: Q2 2015 Earnings Call
Market Cap: 88,949.19
Current PX: 73.34
YTD Change($): N.A.
YTD Change(%): N.A.
Bloomberg Estimates - EPS
Current Quarter: 0.674
Current Year: 2.789
Bloomberg Estimates - Sales
Current Quarter: 6753.000
Current Year: 25852.000
Page 1 of 2
Q2 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
• Christopher M. Jakubik
• Paulo Luiz Araújo Basílio
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day. My name is Amanda and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome
everyone to The Kraft Heinz Company Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. This listen-only call is being
recorded at the request of The Kraft Heinz Company for replay purposes.
I would now turn the call over to Chris Jakubik, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Jakubik, you may begin.
Christopher M. Jakubik
Thank you, Amanda, and welcome to the Q2 2015 business update for Kraft Heinz Company bondholders. With me is
our Chief financial Officer, Paulo Basílio. During our remarks, we will make some forward-looking statements.
Statements are based on how we see things today. Actual results may differ due to risks and uncertainties. These are
discussed in our earnings release, which can be found in the Investors section of kraftheinzcompany.com.
We'll also be discussing some non-GAAP financial measures during the call. You can find the GAAP to non-GAAP
reconciliations in our earnings release.
Before we get started, please note that the merger between Kraft Foods Group and H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation to
form the The Kraft Heinz Company was completed on July 2, 2015, which was after the close of the second quarters
for each respective company.
So, in keeping with Heinz's practice, prior to the merger, this call will be a review of the pre-merger, standalone
financial results for each company in Q2 2015 as outlined in the press release we issued on August 10.
With that, I will hand it over to Paul.
Paulo Luiz Araújo Basílio
Thank you, Chris. Turning first to Kraft, net revenues decreased 4.9%, including a negative 1.4% impact from
currencies. Kraft organic net revenues decreased 3.3% constituting of a 2.6% decline from volume/mix and a 0.7%
decline from lower net pricing. The volume/mix decline included an approximate 1 percentage point negative impact
from the timing of Easter and related shipments and an approximate 1 percentage point negative impact from lower
ready-to-drink beverage sales resulting from the decreased promotional activity versus the prior year quarter as well as
retail inventory shifts this year. Lower net pricing reflected pricing actions in the Cheese and Foodservice businesses
related to lower dairy costs. These were partially offset by the carryover impact of price increases taken in prior
quarters.
Operating income was $923 million and diluted EPS was $0.92, inclusive of one-off factors in the quarter. Excluding
the impact of these factors in both years operating income grew at a mid-single-digit rate and EPS grew at a
double-digit rate.
Company Name: Kraft Heinz Co/the
Company Ticker: KHC US
Date: 2015-08-14
Event Description: Q2 2015 Earnings Call
Market Cap: 88,949.19
Current PX: 73.34
YTD Change($): N.A.
YTD Change(%): N.A.
Bloomberg Estimates - EPS
Current Quarter: 0.674
Current Year: 2.789
Bloomberg Estimates - Sales
Current Quarter: 6753.000
Current Year: 25852.000
Page 2 of 2
This growth was primarily driven by a combination of favorable commodity costs net of pricing mainly in the dairy and
meat categories; lower SG&A expenses driven by reductions in advertising spending; and lower manufacturing costs
driven by net productivity. EPS growth was further enhanced by a lower effective tax rate and a lower net interest
expense versus the prior year quarter.
Free cash flow through the first six months of 2015 was $802 million, up from $454 million from the same period
during the prior year. This reflected working capital improvement that more than offset an increase in capital
expenditures.
Now, turning to Heinz. Sales declined 4.1% due to a negative 9.4% impact from foreign exchange translation, and a
0.6% reduction from the divestiture of a frozen food business in the UK.
Heinz organic net sales grew 5.9%. Net pricing increased by 4.2% driven by higher pricing across all segments,
primarily in Latin America. Volume increased 1.7% driven by higher inventory stock at U.S. retailers in the first
quarter of 2014 prior to implementation of SAP, as well as raw material and packaging supply constraints in
Venezuela. These volume gains were partially offset by volume declines due to the timing of Ramadan festive season
in Indonesia, reduced trade promotion in Russia, product rationalization in Europe and capital declines in Italy.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $46 million or 6.7% to $739 million, primarily driven by gross profit as a result of
increased sales in North America and Venezuela, cost of goods sold productivity initiative and an overall reduction in
SG&A. These gains were partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange translation rates in all segments and
increased marketing spending in North America. Organic adjusted EBITDA grew 16.3% driven by increasing sales and
lower SG&A.
I will now turn the call back to Chris Jakubik for closing remarks.
Christopher M. Jakubik
Thanks, Paulo, and thank you for listening to our call. For any investors or analysts who have follow-up questions, I
will be available at your convenience. And for anybody in the media who has further questions, Michael Mullen will be
available to take your calls as well. Thank you, and have a good day.
Operator
This concludes the conference call. You may now disconnect from the line.
This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other inaccuracies. This transcript
is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript
and provides it solely for your personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential,
special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the
information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities
or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.
© COPYRIGHT 2015, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is
expressly prohibited.